Digital Assets
Practice
plenitudeconsulting.com
Contents
Overview 03
Ambition and differentiators 04
Our Digital Assets Practice 05
Our service – Digital Assets 06
Cryptoassets training and awareness 07
Crypto compliance solutions 08
Development and independent assessment 09
of control frameworks
Our RegTech products 10
Practice lead 11
.
03
Overview
Plenitude overview
Plenitude provides market-leading Financial Crime Compliance (FCC) advisory, transformation, technology,
data analytics, and managed services. We are committed to building a secure financial system, safeguarding
society, and empowering our clients to meet their regulatory obligations.
Appointed to the FCA’s Skilled Person Panel for Financial Crime, we enable our clients to stay ahead of emerging risks and
evolving regulations by optimising systems and controls, leveraging the latest AI-powered technology and data analytics, in order
to drive greater effectiveness, efficiency and sustainability, reducing the overall cost of compliance.
Our best-in-class team come from a variety of backgrounds and disciplines. This breadth and depth of industry and deep subject
matter expertise, alongside our scalable, full-service offering and tech-enabled delivery, enables us to meet all of our clients’
needs, inspiring confidence and delivering excellence.
We work with a broad range of retail, commercial and investment banks, insurers, asset managers, as well as payment service
firms, electronic money issuers, FinTechs and crypto firms across the world, ranging from startups to global financial institutions.
We have a proven delivery track record and have provided advisory and transformation services on some of the most challenging
projects in the industry.
Our depth of expertise and quality of service, combined with our commercial integrity, competitive rates and innovation, is
second to none. Discover more about our services and see why our integrity, passion and delivery excellence have been praised
by so many clients.
04
Our
ambition
and
differentiation
.
Our ambition and differentiation
Our goal is clear: to be the best Financial Crime Compliance (FCC) partner in the market, trusted and admired for our expertise,
our impact and the relationships that we forge. We commit to owning our clients’ challenges – performing with skill, integrity and
transparency to deliver solutions that bring both confidence and peace of mind.
Committed to mitigating S166 Panel for Committed, agile and Our approach Continuous innovation
financial crime Financial Crime cost-effective to business and cost-effective
RegTech products
Exclusively dedicated to financial Plenitude are appointed to the We are an agile, niche consultancy Our team of specialists are
crime since 2012, we’ve worked FCA’s Skilled Person Panel for committed to client success. Free experts in their fields, delivering We never stop innovating. Our
with a broad range of financial Financial Crime (Lot E) and are from legacy consulting models, best-in-class FCC services across constant improvements reflect
institutions and firms across all authorised to conduct skilled we offer a ‘need-to-have’ team the globe for total confidence and regulatory shifts and the need
sectors, successfully supporting in person reviews on behalf of the structure and competitive rates. peace of mind. We maintain the to future-proof our compliance
the enhancement of their control regulator. We possess a deep highest standards of integrity – programmes. This includes
frameworks. Our success stems understanding of regulatory offering transparent and realistic incorporating AI, and developing
from our team’s deep subject expectations and extensive insights on budgets, challenges our RegTech subscription products
matter and transformation experience in effectively assisting and timelines from the start. We’re which enhance our consulting
expertise, spanning all financial clients in addressing regulatory committed to true partnership services and enable clients to
crime risk types, in a regulatory shortcomings or mitigating the with our clients, prioritising efficiently manage financial crime
landscape that’s constantly risk of a Section 166 review. communication and guaranteeing obligations, country and client risk
evolving. frequent updates on progress, – with more solutions on the way.
budget optimisation and team
deployment.
05
Our
Digital
Assets
Practice
Rapidly evolving regulatory Diverse compliance
Digital Assets Practice
framework solutions
Crypto regulations must balance The public nature of blockchains
innovation with consumer protection, unlocks powerful on-chain data for
Our Digital Assets
financial stability and crime compliance and risk management.
prevention. We help your firm master This has spawned a rich vendor
Practice
FCC and navigate registration and landscape brimming with innovative
licensing requirements with ease. solutions – and choosing the right one
It’s not every day that you see the birth of a
is crucial. Our deep expertise will guide
paradigm-shifting industry. In slightly more
your firm to the best-fit solutions to
than a decade, the digital assets industry has
raise your compliance game.
skyrocketed to a market cap of over 2 trillion
USD, bringing innovations poised to revolutionise
monetary systems, financial services and beyond.
This explosive growth brings challenges, but
our expertise is your key to navigating them. Expertise gap Deep knowledge
Seize the opportunities digital assets offer while
Newly regulated crypto firms often We’ve built a powerhouse team with deep
staying ahead of regulatory demands with our
struggle with creating robust control knowledge of regulatory expectations,
guidance.
frameworks. A thorough knowledge crypto business models and associated
of regulatory expectations and best risks. Our specialists help crypto firms
practices is crucial for designing master the regulatory landscape
and implementing effective risk and craft robust risk management
management and control systems. frameworks. We also collaborate with
Let our expertise guide you to traditional finance firms, enhancing their
success. digital asset knowledge to make informed
decisions, strategise on risk management
and seize emerging opportunities.
Our services for cryptoassets Our services for
service providers financial institutions
06
• Advice on regulatory obligations applicable • Crypto training and awareness activities to
to crypto firms, and training with regard to all staff and/or top decision-makers
regulatory expectations and effective risk
• Assessment of financial crime risks
Our services – management
associated with the crypto business models,
• Identification of when and how your use cases and propositions
Digital Assets business needs to be registered / licensed,
• Help with the development of a crypto
and help with your application
strategy, and in conducting risk
• Subscription tools to assist on risk-country assessments to implement them
We deliver our digital asset advisory and
ratings (Compass) and client risk rating
transformation services using proprietary • Advice on current and emerging regulatory
(ClientSight)
frameworks and how to adapt your crypto
toolkits and methodologies. These have
• Independent assessment or audit of strategy to these
been developed and tested over multiple
your AML and crypto risk management
engagements, and reflect industry regulations, framework
guidance and best practice.
Our services for both
• Guidance on crypto compliance solutions and help with their selection and implementation
• Development and implementation of policies, procedures, systems and controls tailored to crypto-related
activities, including risk appetite, risk assessment, monitoring and controls testing
• Programme / project management and transformation support
• Help with the preparation of regulatory reviews and support with response plans
• Due diligence on crypto issuers and cryptoasset service providers
• KYC / CDD remediation through our KYC Managed Services offering
Our
service
–
Digital
Assets
Digital Assets Practice
07
Cryptoassets
training
and
awareness
Overview and key concepts Regulatory framework
DDiiggiittaall AAsssseettss PPrraaccttiiccee • History, evolution and adoption of • The emerging international regulatory
cryptoassets framework for cryptoassets
• Crypto business models (issuers, • Approach to regulation in the UK, EU, USA
miners, crypto exchanges, wallets, and other key jurisdictions
Cryptoassets
custodians, etc.)
• Crypto regulatory regime in the UK, EU, HK
• Blockchain design, consensus mechanisms and key considerations for crypto firms
training and
programmability (smart contracts) and
• Regulatory obligations for TradFi firms
governance
with exposure to cryptoassets
awareness
• Overview of cryptocurrencies including
Bitcoin and privacy coins, stablecoins,
Our training equips decision-makers, business other cryptoassets and Central Bank
Digital Currencies
stakeholders and compliance professionals
with a comprehensive grasp of the technology,
business models and use cases of cryptoassets.
We cover regulatory frameworks, associated
Applications and use cases Crypto risk management
risks and mitigation strategies. The structure
• Smart contract platforms • Financial crime risks associated with
and content are flexible, tailored to your
cryptoassets (money laundering, terrorist
audience, needs and learning goals. • Decentralised Finance (DeFi)
financing, sanctions, fraud and cybercrime)
• Non-Fungible Tokens (NFTs)
• How to mitigate the risks associated with
• Decentralised Web3 infrastructure cryptoassets (for both crypto and TradFi
firms) and key systems and controls
• Tokenisation of real-world assets
• Overview of crypto compliance solutions:
features, functionality and benefits (e.g.
Chainalysis, TRM Labs, etc.)
Crypto compliance solutions
08 Managing cryptoasset risks across the customer lifecycle is crucial for regulatory compliance. While core control frameworks are similar to traditional
finance, the public nature of blockchains has spawned specialist compliance solutions, such as blockchain analytics tools. These are essential for crypto
activities. We’ve explored the vendor landscape and forged strong relationships to help you select and implement the best solutions for your business.
Exposure by risk type
Money laundering Terrorist financing Sanctions Fraud
Business acceptance Onboarding and CDD/KYC Ongoing monitoring and surveillance
Controls
Ongoing customer screening
Risk appetite Customer screening
(sanctions and PEPs)
Due diligence on customer and crypto wallets
Policies and procedures Detect high-risk crypto transactions
when onboarding
Initial customer risk rating Determine source of funds and wealth Trace source and destination of funds
VASP due diligence Final customer risk rating Ongoing customer risk rating and KYC
Conduct transactions monitoring
Investigate user activity
SAR reporting
Compliance solutions*
*Examples of vendors are not exhaustive and provided only for illustrative purposes.
Crypto
compliance
solutions
Money laundering
thgisrevO
dna
ecnanrevoG
gnitropeR
ksiR
dna
IM
Development and independent assessment of control frameworks
09 Getting a licence for crypto activities is just the beginning. Regulators demand robust policies, procedures, systems and controls to meet
obligations and mitigate financial crime risks. We tailor these frameworks to your operations, ensuring full compliance – or we can conduct
independent assessments of existing frameworks. Let us help you navigate this critical phase with confidence.
AML/CTF and Sanctions Compliance Framework
Governance and Oversight
AML/CTF and Sanctions Customer Risk Rating and Business-Wide Risk Assessment
Drives
Exposure by risk type
Terrorist financing Sanctions
Illustrative financial crime controls
Client Risk Rating Transaction Monitoring and Investigations
Client Due Diligence (Initial and Ongoing) Investigations and Suspicious Activity Reporting
Outsourcing and Third-Party Oversight Sanctions and Peps Screening
Operationaised Monitored
through: using:
Supported and enabled by
Obligations Management and Horizon Scanning Training, Culture and Awareness
Control Testing and Assurance (Internal and External 3 Lines Of Defence) Fraud Technology and Operations
Development
and
independent
assessment
of
control
frameworks
10
Our
RegTech
products
Digital Assets Practice
Our RegTech
RegSight (Obligations Compass offers a risk-rated ClientSight is a cloud-based
Register) is the ultimate online country list with detailed app delivering our top-tier
products
solution for managing your methodology, research, analysis financial crime client risk rating
FCC obligations, ensuring and data, all accessible via methodology. Developed
Our RegTech subscription services put
your organisation meets all an online portal. The annual and tested at major global
our clients in the driving seat – to manage
requirements. Stay informed subscription includes quarterly institutions, it helps firms
financial crime obligations, country and
with relevant obligations and updates to the country list assess clients’ inherent financial
client risk more effectively while
our monthly horizon scanning and data. crime risk and determine the
reducing internal risks, costs and
service, monitoring 200+ necessary level of due diligence
resource demands.
legal and regulatory sources and monitoring.
to keep you prepared for
changes in financial crime laws,
regulations and guidance.
11
Digital
Assets
Practice
Lead
Digital Assets Practice
Manuel Fajardo
Digital Assets Practice Lead
With over 17 years in global asset management, Manuel brings a wealth of
experience in compliance, internal control and internal audit, having worked in Paris,
London and Los Angeles. Before joining Plenitude, he built a global compliance
framework for a major investment management group, expertly balancing local and
global considerations, particularly in anti-money laundering, international sanctions
and financial promotions / distribution.
Manuel’s deep knowledge of the cryptoassets industry, honed over eight years of study, investment and
advisory work, is invaluable. He’s trained traditional finance companies on this emerging sector and
its regulatory landscape, advised crypto firms on compliance, and influenced regulatory discussions
through industry trade bodies.
Fluent in four languages and adept at handling multiple complex topics, Manuel’s pragmatic, solutions-
oriented approach and rigorous expertise make him a key asset for any project. His global regulatory
insights and ability to craft successful frameworks are crucial for navigating today’s dynamic financial
landscape.
.
UK Hong Kong Paris
Plenitude Consulting Ltd Plenitude Consulting Asia Ltd Plenitude Consulting Ltd
7th Floor Level 19 7 Rue Meyerbeer
30 Churchill Place Two International Finance Centre Paris
Canary Wharf 8 Finance Street France
London Central 75009
E14 5RE Hong Kong
+44 (0)20 3102 9526 +852 2251 1613 +33 (0)1 73 05 39 74
enquiries@plenitudeconsulting.com
plenitudeconsulting.com