digital assets practice plenitudeconsulting.com contents overview 03 ambition and differentiators 04 our digital assets practice 05 our service digital assets 06 cryptoassets training and awareness 07 crypto compliance solutions 08 development and independent assessment 09 of control frameworks our regtech products 10 practice lead 11 . 03 overview plenitude overview plenitude provides market-leading financial crime compliance fcc advisory, transformation, technology, data analytics, and managed services. we are committed to building a secure financial system, safeguarding society, and empowering our clients to meet their regulatory obligations. appointed to the fca s skilled person panel for financial crime, we enable our clients to stay ahead of emerging risks and evolving regulations by optimising systems and controls, leveraging the latest ai-powered technology and data analytics, in order to drive greater effectiveness, efficiency and sustainability, reducing the overall cost of compliance. our best-in-class team come from a variety of backgrounds and disciplines. this breadth and depth of industry and deep subject matter expertise, alongside our scalable, full-service offering and tech-enabled delivery, enables us to meet all of our clients needs, inspiring confidence and delivering excellence. we work with a broad range of retail, commercial and investment banks, insurers, asset managers, as well as payment service firms, electronic money issuers, fintechs and crypto firms across the world, ranging from startups to global financial institutions. we have a proven delivery track record and have provided advisory and transformation services on some of the most challenging projects in the industry. our depth of expertise and quality of service, combined with our commercial integrity, competitive rates and innovation, is second to none. discover more about our services and see why our integrity, passion and delivery excellence have been praised by so many clients. 04 our ambition and differentiation . our ambition and differentiation our goal is clear: to be the best financial crime compliance fcc partner in the market, trusted and admired for our expertise, our impact and the relationships that we forge. we commit to owning our clients challenges performing with skill, integrity and transparency to deliver solutions that bring both confidence and peace of mind. committed to mitigating s166 panel for committed, agile and our approach continuous innovation financial crime financial crime cost-effective to business and cost-effective regtech products exclusively dedicated to financial plenitude are appointed to the we are an agile, niche consultancy our team of specialists are crime since 2012, we ve worked fca s skilled person panel for committed to client success. free experts in their fields, delivering we never stop innovating. our with a broad range of financial financial crime lot e and are from legacy consulting models, best-in-class fcc services across constant improvements reflect institutions and firms across all authorised to conduct skilled we offer a need-to-have team the globe for total confidence and regulatory shifts and the need sectors, successfully supporting in person reviews on behalf of the structure and competitive rates. peace of mind. we maintain the to future-proof our compliance the enhancement of their control regulator. we possess a deep highest standards of integrity programmes. this includes frameworks. our success stems understanding of regulatory offering transparent and realistic incorporating ai, and developing from our team s deep subject expectations and extensive insights on budgets, challenges our regtech subscription products matter and transformation experience in effectively assisting and timelines from the start. we re which enhance our consulting expertise, spanning all financial clients in addressing regulatory committed to true partnership services and enable clients to crime risk types, in a regulatory shortcomings or mitigating the with our clients, prioritising efficiently manage financial crime landscape that s constantly risk of a section 166 review. communication and guaranteeing obligations, country and client risk evolving. frequent updates on progress, with more solutions on the way. budget optimisation and team deployment. 05 our digital assets practice rapidly evolving regulatory diverse compliance digital assets practice framework solutions crypto regulations must balance the public nature of blockchains innovation with consumer protection, unlocks powerful on-chain data for our digital assets financial stability and crime compliance and risk management. prevention. we help your firm master this has spawned a rich vendor practice fcc and navigate registration and landscape brimming with innovative licensing requirements with ease. solutions and choosing the right one it s not every day that you see the birth of a is crucial. our deep expertise will guide paradigm-shifting industry. in slightly more your firm to the best-fit solutions to than a decade, the digital assets industry has raise your compliance game. skyrocketed to a market cap of over 2 trillion usd, bringing innovations poised to revolutionise monetary systems, financial services and beyond. this explosive growth brings challenges, but our expertise is your key to navigating them. expertise gap deep knowledge seize the opportunities digital assets offer while newly regulated crypto firms often we ve built a powerhouse team with deep staying ahead of regulatory demands with our struggle with creating robust control knowledge of regulatory expectations, guidance. frameworks. a thorough knowledge crypto business models and associated of regulatory expectations and best risks. our specialists help crypto firms practices is crucial for designing master the regulatory landscape and implementing effective risk and craft robust risk management management and control systems. frameworks. we also collaborate with let our expertise guide you to traditional finance firms, enhancing their success. digital asset knowledge to make informed decisions, strategise on risk management and seize emerging opportunities. our services for cryptoassets our services for service providers financial institutions 06 advice on regulatory obligations applicable crypto training and awareness activities to to crypto firms, and training with regard to all staff and or top decision-makers regulatory expectations and effective risk assessment of financial crime risks our services management associated with the crypto business models, identification of when and how your use cases and propositions digital assets business needs to be registered licensed, help with the development of a crypto and help with your application strategy, and in conducting risk subscription tools to assist on risk-country assessments to implement them we deliver our digital asset advisory and ratings compass and client risk rating transformation services using proprietary advice on current and emerging regulatory clientsight frameworks and how to adapt your crypto toolkits and methodologies. these have independent assessment or audit of strategy to these been developed and tested over multiple your aml and crypto risk management engagements, and reflect industry regulations, framework guidance and best practice. our services for both guidance on crypto compliance solutions and help with their selection and implementation development and implementation of policies, procedures, systems and controls tailored to crypto-related activities, including risk appetite, risk assessment, monitoring and controls testing programme project management and transformation support help with the preparation of regulatory reviews and support with response plans due diligence on crypto issuers and cryptoasset service providers kyc cdd remediation through our kyc managed services offering our service digital assets digital assets practice 07 cryptoassets training and awareness overview and key concepts regulatory framework ddiiggiittaall aasssseettss pprraaccttiiccee history, evolution and adoption of the emerging international regulatory cryptoassets framework for cryptoassets crypto business models issuers, approach to regulation in the uk, eu, usa miners, crypto exchanges, wallets, and other key jurisdictions cryptoassets custodians, etc. crypto regulatory regime in the uk, eu, hk blockchain design, consensus mechanisms and key considerations for crypto firms training and programmability smart contracts and regulatory obligations for tradfi firms governance with exposure to cryptoassets awareness overview of cryptocurrencies including bitcoin and privacy coins, stablecoins, our training equips decision-makers, business other cryptoassets and central bank digital currencies stakeholders and compliance professionals with a comprehensive grasp of the technology, business models and use cases of cryptoassets. we cover regulatory frameworks, associated applications and use cases crypto risk management risks and mitigation strategies. the structure smart contract platforms financial crime risks associated with and content are flexible, tailored to your cryptoassets money laundering, terrorist audience, needs and learning goals. decentralised finance defi financing, sanctions, fraud and cybercrime non-fungible tokens nfts how to mitigate the risks associated with decentralised web3 infrastructure cryptoassets for both crypto and tradfi firms and key systems and controls tokenisation of real-world assets overview of crypto compliance solutions: features, functionality and benefits e.g. chainalysis, trm labs, etc. crypto compliance solutions 08 managing cryptoasset risks across the customer lifecycle is crucial for regulatory compliance. while core control frameworks are similar to traditional finance, the public nature of blockchains has spawned specialist compliance solutions, such as blockchain analytics tools. these are essential for crypto activities. we ve explored the vendor landscape and forged strong relationships to help you select and implement the best solutions for your business. exposure by risk type money laundering terrorist financing sanctions fraud business acceptance onboarding and cdd kyc ongoing monitoring and surveillance controls ongoing customer screening risk appetite customer screening sanctions and peps due diligence on customer and crypto wallets policies and procedures detect high-risk crypto transactions when onboarding initial customer risk rating determine source of funds and wealth trace source and destination of funds vasp due diligence final customer risk rating ongoing customer risk rating and kyc conduct transactions monitoring investigate user activity sar reporting compliance solutions examples of vendors are not exhaustive and provided only for illustrative purposes. crypto compliance solutions money laundering thgisrevo dna ecnanrevog gnitroper ksir dna im development and independent assessment of control frameworks 09 getting a licence for crypto activities is just the beginning. regulators demand robust policies, procedures, systems and controls to meet obligations and mitigate financial crime risks. we tailor these frameworks to your operations, ensuring full compliance or we can conduct independent assessments of existing frameworks. let us help you navigate this critical phase with confidence. aml ctf and sanctions compliance framework governance and oversight aml ctf and sanctions customer risk rating and business-wide risk assessment drives exposure by risk type terrorist financing sanctions illustrative financial crime controls client risk rating transaction monitoring and investigations client due diligence initial and ongoing investigations and suspicious activity reporting outsourcing and third-party oversight sanctions and peps screening operationaised monitored through: using: supported and enabled by obligations management and horizon scanning training, culture and awareness control testing and assurance internal and external 3 lines of defence fraud technology and operations development and independent assessment of control frameworks 10 our regtech products digital assets practice our regtech regsight obligations compass offers a risk-rated clientsight is a cloud-based register is the ultimate online country list with detailed app delivering our top-tier products solution for managing your methodology, research, analysis financial crime client risk rating fcc obligations, ensuring and data, all accessible via methodology. developed our regtech subscription services put your organisation meets all an online portal. the annual and tested at major global our clients in the driving seat to manage requirements. stay informed subscription includes quarterly institutions, it helps firms financial crime obligations, country and with relevant obligations and updates to the country list assess clients inherent financial client risk more effectively while our monthly horizon scanning and data. crime risk and determine the reducing internal risks, costs and service, monitoring 200 necessary level of due diligence resource demands. legal and regulatory sources and monitoring. to keep you prepared for changes in financial crime laws, regulations and guidance. 11 digital assets practice lead digital assets practice manuel fajardo digital assets practice lead with over 17 years in global asset management, manuel brings a wealth of experience in compliance, internal control and internal audit, having worked in paris, london and los angeles. before joining plenitude, he built a global compliance framework for a major investment management group, expertly balancing local and global considerations, particularly in anti-money laundering, international sanctions and financial promotions distribution. manuel s deep knowledge of the cryptoassets industry, honed over eight years of study, investment and advisory work, is invaluable. he s trained traditional finance companies on this emerging sector and its regulatory landscape, advised crypto firms on compliance, and influenced regulatory discussions through industry trade bodies. fluent in four languages and adept at handling multiple complex topics, manuel s pragmatic, solutions- oriented approach and rigorous expertise make him a key asset for any project. his global regulatory insights and ability to craft successful frameworks are crucial for navigating today s dynamic financial landscape. . uk hong kong paris plenitude consulting ltd plenitude consulting asia ltd plenitude consulting ltd 7th floor level 19 7 rue meyerbeer 30 churchill place two international finance centre paris canary wharf 8 finance street france london central 75009 e14 5re hong kong 44 0 20 3102 9526 852 2251 1613 33 0 1 73 05 39 74 enquiries plenitudeconsulting.com plenitudeconsulting.com