building the digital asset may 2024 securities ecosystem digital asset securities control principles: a framework for adoption in collaboration with may 2024 table of contents building the digital asset securities ecosystem an industry paper from dtcc, clearstream, and euroclear with the collaboration of bcg building the digital asset securities ecosystem 2 letter from the ceos the dascp marks the starting point of further industry- wide engagement to enable standardization, drive adoption, and unlock value. to achieve these goals, dear industry colleagues, we intend to put these principles into action. by ultimately, leveraging them in our digital asset activities, we will time and again, the global financial markets have effectively demonstrate to clients, regulators, and the leaned on financial market infrastructures fmis to broader industry that digital asset securities can be we believe drive change. as we are in the midst of rapid evolution just as safe and secure as traditional assets. we will in distributed ledger technology dlt and digital asset also advise and support market participants as they securities das , dtcc, clearstream, and euroclear have that industry leverage the principles in their own business activities. partnered to play a lead role in the development and adoption of this technology. between them, the fmis ultimately, we believe that industry collaboration is not collaboration is have decades of experience, a vast network of client only the most expedient way but also the most effective relationships from nearly every corner of the financial way to build a robust global digital assets ecosystem. not only the most markets, and a strong track record of supporting we invite you to join us in this exciting journey that market evolution which has earned the fmis the has the potential to redefine global finance, ensuring trust and respect of market participants, regulators, that this digital transformation benefits the ecosystem expedient way industry associations, and others. the adoption of digital and contributes to sustainable economic growth. we technology presents opportunities and challenges that look forward to your support and engagement as but also the require a cohesive, strategic approach, emphasizing we collectively expand upon these principles, setting the need for collaboration to effectively integrate these new standards for financial markets worldwide. innovations into the global financial ecosystem. most effective sincerely, the beginning of our collaboration was marked by our first white paper, advancing the digital asset era, way to build together. building on this, we have worked together to develop the digital asset securities control principles a robust global dascp , which are presented in this white paper. the principles serve as a set of guidelines underpinning digital assets our collective resolve to uphold the highest standards of integrity, security, and interoperability. this frank la salla samuel riley valérie urbain framework is crucial for creating an inclusive, resilient ceo, dtcc ceo, clearstream ceo, euroclear ecosystem. financial ecosystem that is adaptable to technological securities services advancements and responsive to diverse market needs. we would like to thank bcg for its valuable support in enriching and testing this framework. building the digital asset securities ecosystem 3 executive summary this framework serves multiple functions: this white paper presents a comprehensive set of risk management principles and controls designed to regulatory compliance and market integrity: unlock the transformative nature of distributed ledger ensures that das operations align with existing and evolving technology dlt in the realm of digital asset securities regulatory frameworks, maintaining legal and market integrity. das , excluding cryptocurrencies. it outlines an industry-wide risk and control framework, which serves as a guide to navigate the current set of challenges, fostering operational excellence in financial markets driven by dlt. through this structured approach, risk management: the white paper aims to facilitate the adoption of provides a structured approach to identify, assess, and manage the specific tokenization into the financial markets, paving the way risks associated with das, enhancing market stability and security. for its substantial role in the evolution of finance. dtcc, clearstream, and euroclear have developed the digital asset securities control principles dascp , utilizing our combined decades of experience to market adoption: effectively manage regulatory compliance and reduce operational risks. this set of principles outlines a facilitates the broader adoption of das by setting clear guidelines safe and efficient ecosystem, identifies potential that will reduce the barrier to entry for new participants. risks specific to das, and provides appropriate recommendations for controls to mitigate these risks. in fostering these functions, the dascp framework interoperability and efficiency: is designed to be asset class agnostic and provides the basis for subsequent standardization that encourages interoperability technologically neutral, ensuring its adaptability to the diverse operational requirements of between diverse platforms and systems e.g., other blockchain platforms, legacy, and organizations across the financial ecosystem. third-party systems, etc. , crucial for efficient transactions across market players. trust building: builds trust among issuers, investors, regulators, and market participants, fundamental for sustainable market growth. building the digital asset securities ecosystem 4 the primary objective of this white paper is to catalyze key takeaways comprehensive understanding, foster collaboration, and spearhead further advancement within the digital 1 comprehensive framework development: asset ecosystem. to ensure our approach remained undertook the collaborative development of the digital asset securities control principles dascp , objective and well-informed, a comprehensive analysis providing a robust framework to support the evolving digital asset ecosystem. this initiative was conducted. it included reviews of approximately underscores the commitment of dtcc, clearstream, and euroclear to shaping the future of finance 100 regulations, white papers and expert discussions across multiple jurisdictions, as well as over 20 interviews through innovative technologies. with key market participants and technology vendors. 2 foundational principles for industry standardization: the initial development of the dascp marks the establishes critical principles for the successful adoption of das, with the dascp noted for its asset class beginning of a more expansive initiative. the dascp and technology agnosticism, making them universally applicable. this neutrality is crucial for facilitating will serve as a baseline to help propel the industry a balanced and inclusive dialogue around standards. by serving as a foundational document, the dascp toward standards. to ensure the framework remains aims to spark industry-wide discussions that will help shape robust, comprehensive standards for the reflective of the latest industry developments, we plan digital asset marketplace. to transition the stewardship of these principles to a industry association. we believe that a neutral third- party industry association is best positioned to align 3 identifying risks and establishing controls: the digital asset ecosystem on prioritizing, identifying, presents a detailed analysis of the potential risks associated with the adoption of das and offers a agreeing, and adopting standards. this move is designed comprehensive set of controls to mitigate these risks. this proactive risk management is intended to to position the association to actively engage with the safeguard the integrity and stability of the das market. broader ecosystem. this involvement is crucial for the dascp to serve not just as a set of guidelines but as a 4 encouraging active industry participation: dynamic catalyst that drives the conversation forward. invites all stakeholders to actively participate in the evolution of the dascp, contributing to a dtcc, clearstream, and euroclear are committed to collective effort that shapes the future of digital finance. advising and supporting this work as it continues. 5 future-proofing financial markets: serves as a blueprint for a common and resilient digital asset securities ecosystem, illustrating how the adoption of these principles can help future-proof financial markets against technological disruptions and regulatory changes. 6 transition to industry-wide engagement: highlights the pivotal next step of transitioning the stewardship of the dascp to an industry association. this move is aimed at fostering broader engagement and ensuring the framework s relevance and dynamism in response to an evolving market and technology landscape. building the digital asset securities ecosystem 5 introduction: transforming das introduce new capabilities in financial services, re-envisioning existing processes and creating trust in capital markets through real time. programmability, self-executing automation, and instantaneous reconciliation are key features digital asset securities that have the potential to transform the industry. central to this transformation is dlt, which enables nearly immediate transaction settlement and creates immutable transaction records. asset tokenization the scope of this paper encompasses digital asset leverages dlt to create reusable processes that can securities subsequently referred to as das as be quickly adapted to develop new das and manage defined by gfma. specifically, it includes securities their life cycles, enhancing operational scalability. with that utilize dlt to represent or embody rights these advantages, financial institutions are increasingly similar to those of traditional securities, whether investing in das to unlock these transformative benefits. these are issued directly on a blockchain i.e., native security tokens or are digital representations i.e., overall, propelled by smart contracts and digital twins of existing securities e.g., all forms automated processes in different areas, annual of equity, debt, derivatives, etc. . these digital global infrastructure operational cost savings of assets might provide dividends, voting rights, $15-20 billion have been estimated.1 furthermore, interest payments, or other rights associated due to shortened settlement cycles, dlt impacts with traditional securities. excluded from this on collateral management could release $100 scope are money or money-like digital assets, billion annually in freed financial resources.2 such as cryptocurrencies, stablecoins, and central by 2030, the tokenization of global illiquid bank digital currencies cbdcs , which function assets is projected to be a $16 trillion business primarily as means of payment or stores of value. opportunity,3 significantly increasing asset liquidity and expanding market participation. gfma - global financial markets association: this shift not only promises enhanced efficiency impact of distributed ledger technology and transparency but also democratizes access in global capital markets, 2023 to investment opportunities, reshaping the financial landscape for a more inclusive future. 1, 2impact of distributed ledger technology in global capital markets, gfma, may 2023 3relevance of on-chain asset tokenization in crypto winter, bcg, and addx, may 2022 building the digital asset securities ecosystem 6 despite these potential benefits, widespread dlt a vision for collaborative adoption faces challenges. according to issa s recent survey, only 37% of the industry is live with dlt.4 the advancement full benefits of das cannot be realized without more concerted and integrated efforts toward collaboration. with this white paper, we are introducing the dascp, in this context, fmis have a crucial role to play. historically which describes a das framework consisting of the linchpins of the financial system, facilitating foundational principles for a secure and efficient fmis are actively clearing, settlement, and recordkeeping, fmis are now ecosystem, risks arising from the implementation supporting the integration of das into the conventional and the adoption of the new technology, and working toward financial fabric. in building upon the foundation laid controls to effectively mitigate these risks. by our previous collaborative publication, advancing during her interview at sibos 2023, dr. stephanie the digital asset era, together,5 this white paper the co-creation eckermann, ceo of clearstream banking ag, delineates our journey toward adopting digital assets. noted that the digital disruption is there now and it recognizes the collaborative efforts needed from ready to scale. 7 the introduction of the dascp of tomorrow s fmis, regulatory bodies, and the broader financial responds to this pivotal realization, acknowledging community, advocating for a united approach to that scaling das is essential for fostering a vibrant financial system address challenges, drive innovation, and seize the ecosystem. by establishing a comprehensive set of opportunities das offer. as highlighted by valérie controls, the dascp serves as an initial step toward one that s urbain, ceo of euroclear, fmis are actively working catalyzing discussions on standardization. this toward the co-creation of tomorrow s financial system approach positions the dascp as a critical starting one that s open, inclusive, efficient, and resilient. 6 point that paves the way for future endeavors, open, inclusive, ultimately helping to drive scale in das markets. efficient, and resilient. the digital disruption is there now and valérie urbain ready to scale. 4dlt in the real world survey 2024 key findings, international securities services ceo, euroclear association, 2024 5dtcc, clearstream, euroclear, advancing the digital asset era, together , sept 2023 6valérie urbain, safety by design: lessons in mainstreaming digital assets with dr. stephanie eckermann resilience, world economic forum, apr 19, 2024 7dr. stephanie eckerman, are digital infrastructures finally ready to scale sibos ceo, clearstream banking ag 2023, sept 2023 building the digital asset securities ecosystem 7 advancing the digital asset securities evolution we believe that the dascp framework is a foundational starting point for promoting das adoption and provides a valuable baseline for the industry: guiding the market toward digital asset securities adoption: with das set to transform securities trading and ownership, we are dedicated to clarifying the complexities surrounding these digital innovations and offering insights into how they can enhance the conventional securities markets. addressing challenges and crafting solutions for digital asset securities: the transition to das introduces various challenges, from regulatory hurdles to issues of interoperability. through the dascp framework, we aim to offer a blueprint that addresses these challenges. setting the stage for digital asset securities standardization and interoperability: for das to fully realize their potential, establishing industry-wide standards and ensuring interoperability are vital. this includes engaging not only market participants but also policymakers and regulatory bodies to ensure that the standards align with both industry needs and regulatory frameworks. the dascp lays the foundation for this comprehensive engagement, aiming to develop standards that facilitate both market growth and regulatory compliance. this collaborative approach is crucial for ensuring the framework s effectiveness and the long-term viability of digital asset securities in the global market. fostering industry collaboration for digital asset securities integration: the successful integration of das necessitates joint efforts across the financial ecosystem. we emphasize the importance of collaboration among regulators, technology providers, and financial institutions to establish a cohesive framework that supports the secure and efficient circulation of das. inspiring innovation and future exploration in digital asset securities: looking beyond immediate applications, we are eager to explore the broader possibilities that das offer for transforming securities markets and unlocking incremental value for the industry. building the digital asset securities ecosystem 8 building adoption settlement: covers the processes of sending these principles and confirming cash payments, transferring and overcoming ownership of securities, and ensuring proper reconciliation by involved parties. are crafted fragmentation custody: involves the maintenance, safekeeping, and to lay the reporting of ownership records, along with corporate in speaking about the future of digital markets prior action management on behalf of asset owners. to the world economic forum in january 2024, frank la salla, ceo of dtcc, emphasized the critical foundations, asset servicing: entails services provided on need for foundational principles. he noted, we have behalf of the issuer e.g., processing dividend initiated a set of control principles that prepare the reducing risks payments, splits, rights issues, etc. . groundwork for ensuring the emerging tokenized it is important to note that the current scope of the securities market is as efficient and secure as today s by defining dascp excludes secondary trading activities. securities marketplace. these principles are crafted to lay the foundations, reducing risks by defining clear the dascp framework is designed to be asset class and roles, responsibilities, and the controls necessary for a clear roles, technology neutral, not advocating for any particular robust framework. 8 the dascp is pivotal in this context, dlt architecture be it public, private, permissioned, designed to address the digital asset landscape s or public permissioned. this ensures its applicability responsibilities, complexities before full standardization can be achieved. across various dlt platforms without endorsing specific the dascp enhances system resilience, safeguards third-party solutions. this technology and asset class customer assets, and facilitates seamless transactions and the agnosticism contributes to the framework s adaptability, through improved connectivity and interoperability, also ensuring that the dascp remains relevant and effective emphasizing the importance of operational scalability. controls amid the rapidly evolving financial landscape. the dascp framework comprehensively covers the dascp has been methodically assembled and various value chain activities essential to the necessary rigorously tested with over 20 market participants. going life cycle of das. these activities include: forward, we invite all industry stakeholders to engage with and actively drive the evolution of this framework. issuance: involves pre-issuance workflows for a robust depending on asset type, registration with central securities depositories csds , and compliance framework. with relevant regulatory frameworks. clearing: encompasses the calculation and frank la salla request of margins, novation of centrally cleared trades, netting of obligations, and ceo, dtcc 8frank la salla, why standards and controls are essential to the future of digital communication of net security / cash obligations. financial markets world economic forum, jan 16, 2024 building the digital asset securities ecosystem 9 to achieve its objectives, the dascp has been crafted using a structured, layered approach as depicted in the figure to the right and summarized below: principle definition established: initially, the dascp framework identified a set of foundational description principles that function as overarching objectives guiding the entire framework. risk identification compilation: a comprehensive list of risks associated with each principle is compiled, incorporating traditional finance risks adapted for das and new risks unique to this sector. control development design: controls for each identified risk are then designed, emphasizing flexibility to allow them to serve as adaptable guidelines rather than rigid rules. the dascp was developed in multiple layers along foundational principles, risks, and controls. hover over the layers in the pyramid to find out more. at this juncture, the dascp is not about creating fixed standards rather, it is laying the necessary groundwork that will inform the development of comprehensive industry standards in the future. building the digital asset securities ecosystem 10 principles the principles below are listed in order of priority, but all are vital to building a secure das ecosystem: the rise in dlt initiatives signifies a shift in financial legal certainty: market infrastructure, reminiscent of the robust standards set forth by the principles for financial ensuring operations comply with existing laws and regulations market infrastructures pfmis issued by bis and to maintain market integrity and investor confidence. iosco. as tokenization becomes increasingly prevalent, the dascp has been proactively established to address the challenges of widespread adoption. regulatory compliance: the dascp is formulated with an understanding of the core objectives that pfmis champion: integrity, encouraging alignment with regulatory frameworks to build a stability, and confidence in the financial system. foundation of trust and safety in digital asset markets. resilience and security: developing robust infrastructure capable of resisting disruptions, while protecting sensitive data and ensuring the continuous operation of digital asset services. safeguarding customer assets: implementing governance over smart contracts to manage and protect customer assets within the digital asset ecosystem securely. connectivity and interoperability: facilitating transactions and flexible settlements across diverse networks to enable the seamless transfer and settlement of das. operational scalability: click on the principles to the right to find out more about each. striving for efficiency and cost-effectiveness through standardized roles and smart contract functions to accommodate market growth. building the digital asset securities ecosystem 11 risks building on the foundational principles outlined above, it is crucial to systematically manage a wide range of risks. adopting a risk-first approach ensures that emerging risks associated with das are proactively identified and effectively mitigated. this establishes a solid basis for safeguarding market integrity and building investor trust, which are critical for the adoption and growth of digital asset markets. these risks, spanning the entire value chain, were identified along with the outlined principles to ensure robustness and exhaustiveness of the framework. some risks inherently impact multiple principles. for conciseness, they were assigned to the principle with the highest importance, as depicted in the figure below. 1 2 3 4 5 6 legal regulatory safeguarding connectivity operational resilience and security certainty compliance customer assets interoperability scalability r1 digital asset legal r4 unauthorized r18 interoperability r26 asset r10 network integrity r30 interoperability risk r32 inability to scale noncompliance investor holdings security risks misappropriation r2 unclear r5 money laundering and r11 network r27 unauthorized r31 network utilization r19 network outage r33 digital asset liquidity settlement finality terrorist financing risks traffic attack smart contract access and fragmentation r3 smart contract r6 dlt network suitability r12 smart r20 smart r28 insufficient smart r34 reputational risk legal enforceability / adaptability contract integrity contract defects contract control r7 digital asset regulatory r13 compromised r21 complexity of r29 financial r35 market inefficiency noncompliance inter-network transfer change management institution insolvency r8 dispute resolution r14 poisoned oracle r22 operational errors r36 inadequate stakeholder / client understanding of r23 asset digital asset securities r9 market abuse r15 private data leakage mismanagement r16 exploited r24 immutable consensus algorithm transactions r17 quantum r25 inadequate computing threat managerial oversight immediate priority subsequent priority minimum requirements unlock full potential building the digital asset securities ecosystem 12 controls a secondary layer of control categorization organizes controls into four distinct groups, each distinguished by a unique suffix appended to the control number: the comprehensive risk inventory establishes a foundation for developing targeted controls essential for managing identified risks, thereby supporting the transition toward a das ecosystem l legal: aligned with our foundational principles. addresses adherence to regulatory requirements and legal frameworks, ensuring these controls are designed to be adaptable, serving that das operations comply with applicable laws and compliance standards. as a broad framework. thus, they function more as guidelines rather than rigid controls and are crafted to address multiple risks, offering flexibility to adjust to different technologies and products. these controls are also dynamic, allowing for iterative updates to keep pace with the changing risk landscape and emerging technological advancements. s smart contract governance: the following controls have been derived ensures the accuracy, authorization, and performance of smart contracts. and mapped to the risks they are mitigating. each control mitigates at least one risk, with many controls addressing multiple risks. r resilience and data protection: protects systems against disruptions and secures sensitive information. n network settlement: fosters reliable and timely transaction processing within the dlt network. building the digital asset securities ecosystem 13 as illustrated in the figure below, controls also have been organized into a taxonomy comprised of four categories legal, smart contract governance, resiliency and data protection, and network settlement each categorized according to its required mitigating measures to enhance clarity. the specific risk that the control mitigates is listed below the control. legal smart contract governance resilience data protection network settlement c13-s smart contract c52-n compliance and c1-l participation guidelines c7-l governance c23-s data / properties c32-r audit trail c39-r recovery testing c46-n data lineage auditing guidelines policy management r1, r35 r1, r6, r35 r3 r22, r32 r2, r12, r14, r16, r23, r24, r26, r27 r10, r19, r21 r1, r12, r15, r21, r23, r27 r4, r5 c8-l rule enforcement c33-r data life cycle c40-r private data c47-n encumbrance c53-n continuous c2-l product eligibility c14-s certification c24-s functions / behaviors and arrangements management segregation mechanism management education r1, r7 r1, r9 r3, r12 r22, r32 r7 r15 r2 r5 c3-l network and c9-l regulatory approval c15-s investor compliance c34-r data subject access c41-r anonymization c54-n legacy c25-s bookkeeping c48-n settlement proofs oracle vetting and oversight and access control rights enforcement and pseudonymization infrastructure integration r1, r6, r10, r14, r35 r1 r4, r5 r22, r29, r32 r7, r24 r15 r2 r30, r32 c4-l participant roles, c10-l asset safeguarding c16-s multiparty c35-r event monitoring c55-n third-party c26-s account structure c42-r identity verification c49-n fail to settle process responsibilities, and obligations and segregation transaction validation and alerts integration guidelines r1, r3, r8, r25, r26 r4, r23, r25, r26, r27, r29 r4, r5, r7, r12, r23, r26, r28 r22, r29, r32 r9, r14, r16, r19, r22, r25, r30, r33 r15 r2 r30 c5-l service providers c17-s dispute resolution c27-s key life cycle c36-r redundancy c43-r geographical c50-n transaction c56-n community c11-lpolicies and procedures responsibilities / mechanism management and concurrency distribution sequencing engagement framework limitation of liability r7, r35 r8 r26, r27 r10, r11, r19 r19 r2, r13 r31, r34 r1 c12-l education and c44-r feature c51-n cross-ledger data c57-n liquidity c18-s code auditing c28-s smart contract roles c37-r backups training for stakeholders deployment process and inventory balances management strategies c6-l terms and conditions on digital asset securities r12, r16, r20, r35 r28, r32 r10, r11, r19, r21 r21 r2, r13 r33 r1, r29 r36 c19-s smart contract c38-r failure prevention, c45-r data integrity c29-s emergency stop entitlements detection, and recovery correction r16, r23, r24, r26, r27, r28 r28, r32 r10, r11, r19, r21 r22 c20-s quantum-resistant c30-s account pause signature algorithms r17 r28, r32 c21-s intraoperability c31-s token pause between dlt networks r18, r22, r30, r32 r28, r32 c22-s token specification model r22, r32 building the digital asset securities ecosystem 14 an important step toward standards the dascp is a strategic road map, aiming to provide the industry with a proposal on how das can be managed, regulated, and scaled. such a strategic road map paves the way for standards by: forging a common language: a shared understanding of terminology and concepts is a cornerstone of effective standardization. enabling regulatory clarity: developed in collaboration with bcg, which reviewed over 100 regulations and engaged with more than 20 key market participants to ensure alignment with both existing and emerging global regulatory frameworks. this clarity in regulation is critical for the advancement of das. providing a blueprint for industry-wide alignment: developing the capabilities to form an aligned perspective on controls is essential for subsequent industry-wide alignment processes. the principles act as a guiding force in the subsequent phases of das adoption, ensuring that standards reflect the collective insights of the entire industry. building the digital asset securities ecosystem 15 case study: translating the dascp framework is designed for flexibility, allowing organizations to adapt high-level controls to their specific principles into practice operational needs. this case study highlights how the framework supports customization to meet diverse organizational requirements effectively. it exemplifies the dascp framework serves as a pragmatic approach how a regulatory aligned framework can be a powerful for streamlining compliance in das transactions. far catalyst for operational efficiency, ultimately contributing from theoretical, these controls are derived from real- to the maturation and growth of the das market. world applications, demonstrating efficiency and adherence to regulatory standards. these controls ensure transactions not only adhere to legal standards and offer interoperability across platforms but also provide robust risk management, reflecting their adaptability and comprehensiveness amid global regulatory diversity. this case study showcases the framework s application in a scenario involving token issuance, transfer, and lending, where the risk management controls are seamlessly integrated into the digital asset transaction flow. this example presents the automation of numerous processes using digital assets, ensuring accurate controls, and reducing manual oversight. in translating these principles into practice, the figure on page 17 maps the controls applied at each transactional junction, demonstrating how specific risks are addressed through tailored controls. the central role of smart contracts is evident throughout the process, offering a robust means to automate intricate transaction sequences, ensure regulatory adherence, and protect the integrity of the loan s data and functions. building the digital asset securities ecosystem 16 case study overview asset manager money market public-permissioned network fund the following pages provide more detail on the major steps and controls. 4 lending pool 3 6 custodian / 7 5 tokenization distributor investor securities agent borrower lending 2 asset manager custodian / 8 smart contract c15-s private 1 tokenization c19-s equity fund agent c21-s c24-s based on erc 4626 tokenized vault standard c28-s private network c29-s c31-s principle risk control major steps: connectivity and interoperability r30 interoperability risk c21-s intraoperability between dlt networks 1 asset tokenization regulatory compliance r4 unauthorized investor holdings c15-s investor compliance 2 token transfer and access control 3 kyc enforcement resilience and security r23 asset mismanagement c19-s smart contract entitlements 4 money market fund mmf issuance 5 mmf tokenization for lending operational scalability r32 inability to scale c24-s functions / behaviors 6 collateral deposit 7 lending pool transactions safeguarding customer assets r28 insufficient smart c28-s smart contract roles contract control 8 automated lending operations c29-s emergency stop c31-s token pause building the digital asset securities ecosystem 17 description of major steps: 1 asset tokenization: an asset manager issues a private security, such as a private equity fund, which is then tokenized on a private blockchain by a custodian. 2 token transfer: the custodian moves the newly created pe private equity tokens from the private ledger to a public-permissioned ledger for wider distribution. 3 kyc enforcement: as tokens are distributed, kyc compliance checks are performed to ensure all investors meet regulatory standards, despite the change in blockchain. 4 money market fund mmf issuance: in parallel, an asset manager issues a money market fund. 5 mmf tokenization for lending: the custodian tokenizes the mmf shares and makes them available for lending in the securities lending market. 6 collateral deposit: investors with tokenized pe fund shares deposit these tokens into the lending pool to serve as collateral. 7 lending pool transactions: using the collateral provided, investors borrow more liquid assets e.g., mmf shares from the lending pool. 8 automated lending operations: the lending process, powered by smart contracts, automates the workflow, including the deposit, loan issuance, and approval, and upon maturity, manages repayment and interest distribution and returns the securities to their original owners. building the digital asset securities ecosystem 18 the chart below presents a detailed illustration of the dascp controls in action, delineating the specific methods used for its implementation. while these examples highlight the controls functionality and the potential for smart contracts to reinforce the robustness of the das market, they are intended to serve as illustrations of what can be achieved. they are not prescriptive organizations are encouraged to interpret and adapt controls to fit their unique environments, strategies, and compliance needs. this illustrative approach reaffirms the dascp framework s commitment to flexibility and its capacity to accommodate a diverse range of technologies and operational scenarios, ensuring its broad applicability and relevance across the financial industry. principle risk control smart contract control activities connectivity and interoperability r30 interoperability risk: the risk c21-s intraoperability between dlt specific smart contracts and token pertains to the complexities of integrating networks: adhere to industry-accepted standards, along with cross-chain digital assets with traditional financial cross-network communication protocols interoperability protocols lock / mint , systems and, potentially, multiple specifically designed for blockchain ensure token transferability from one blockchain architectures e.g., public, interoperability. this includes standardized chain to another, adhering to both public-permissioned, and private to protocols for asset representation, internal compliance and industry- ensure seamless transactions across transaction formats, and data exchange accepted cross-network communication the entire financial spectrum. between different blockchain networks, protocols for asset representation, ensuring seamless and secure interactions transaction formats, and data exchange. across diverse blockchain platforms. regulatory compliance r4 unauthorized investor holdings: c15-s investor compliance and access smart contract checks the client s potential for regulatory noncompliance control: implement mechanisms that wallet for required credentials and and financial repercussions if a non- only allow authorized investors that are completes the transfer only if the investor compliant or unauthorized investor holds in good compliance standing e.g., kyc, is compliant with the fund terms. or transfers a digital asset security. this sanctions, etc. to hold registered securities includes breaches of investor accreditation, while restricting others who are not, which investment caps, or other regulatory could be facilitated by allow-lists, verifiable standards not related to aml or ctf. credentials, or other relevant protocols. building the digital asset securities ecosystem 19 principle risk control smart contract control activities resilience and security r23 asset mismanagement: digital c19-s smart contract entitlements: a smart contract, combined with a specific assets are at risk of being lost, stolen, restrict access to smart contract data token standard, grants the lending or erroneously transferred due to and functions based on standard decision to the lending pool, ensuring breaches in operational controls, roles using fine-grain entitlements. that only the lending pool can issue and system vulnerabilities, or inadequate approve a loan. this ensures immutability asset management protocols. of roles, entitlement, and processes, thus eliminating the risk of unauthorized use or access to the loan s data and functions. operational scalability r32 inability to scale: dlt networks c24-s functions / behaviors: conform smart contracts enable automation and may not efficiently manage or scale to a common set of functions, behaviors, atomic settlement of transactions, which to accommodate surging transaction and service level agreements that support provides scalability to perform large volumes, impacting critical functions various security life cycle operations volumes of standardized yet complex such as post-trade capture and overall such as issuance and settlement. operations in seconds. for example, transaction throughput including suitable for the lending transaction, the smart customer support , potentially degrading contract performed six functions in system performance and reliability. one step deposit, issuance, approval, deposit, hair-cutting, and pledging . safeguarding customer assets r28 insufficient smart contract c28-s smart contract roles: define token standard and smart contract control: a custodian and/or relevant standard roles to determine who can configuration were used to bring off- intermediary does not have the requisite access smart contract data and functions. chain kyc compliance rules into on- control over the digital asset securities / chain token configuration, enabling the c29-s emergency stop: ensure that tokens or smart contracts functions. operations to halt or pause any token smart contracts have an embedded activity when participants did not match kill switch or process to halt all kyc criteria e.g., jurisdiction . this ensured activity, which can be accessed by a that only a role with elevated permission role with elevated permissions. compliance officer could freeze or unfreeze activity over the token factory. c31-s token pause: ensure that a user can freeze or pause activity for all or some of the token inventory, controlled by either the agent of the investor or a role with elevated permissions. building the digital asset securities ecosystem 20 next steps in the customizations within the community, we aim to accelerate the adoption and enhance the effectiveness evolution of the dascp of the dascp across diverse financial ecosystems. to foster open dialogue and collective intelligence, we intend to engage the industry through a series of in-depth discussions involving key stakeholders from across the financial sector. these exchanges will serve as a platform to share insights and best practices, as well as to collaboratively address the concerns and challenges faced by various players in implementing the control principles. also, we plan to transition the stewardship of the dascp to an industry association, ensuring its continuous enhancement and compliance with global regulations. industry associations play a pivotal role in uniting market participants around common goals. this strategic move not only guarantees continuous improvement and expansion of the dascp but also empowers the association to leverage it as a foundational document. this will facilitate the integration of secondary trading risks and controls, and the development of additional standards to bolster interoperability, security, and compliance in the digital asset securities landscape. we will continue to shape the market effectively as we build upon the foundation of our previous collaborative efforts that call for pioneering cash on- chain initiatives and establishing new standards.9 we are committed to continuously sharing insights and supporting adaptations of the dascp to meet specific regional requirements, technology stacks, and operational environments. by disseminating these 9dtcc, clearstream, euroclear, advancing the digital asset era, together, sept 2023 building the digital asset securities ecosystem 21 a united path forward: the imperative for collective action it is important to recognize that the dascp is just one of several critical components required for full-scale adoption. ongoing developments in interoperability, cash on-chain initiatives, scalable solutions, and the formulation of strong business cases remain essential to achieving comprehensive integration and value realization. we extend our gratitude to all participants whose engagement has been helpful in shaping a framework that promises to be both foundational and transformative. integrating these principles into future standards will be vital for enhancing security, efficiency, and promoting broad- based innovation within the industry. we are committed to not just working together but to moving forward with a purpose. this is a call for industry-wide mobilization to support a vision. let us unite in this endeavor to build a robust, integrated financial future. together, we can advance the era of digital asset securities. building the digital asset securities ecosystem 22 appendix building the digital asset securities ecosystem 23 complete risk and control taxonomy the detailed descriptions of risks and controls, as well as a view on which risks are mitigated by which controls, is shown below. detailed risk description: to enhance the effectiveness of our framework, each risk is aligned with one of six principles, ranked from highest to lowest priority. 1 legal certainty is deemed the most urgent, while 6 operational scalability is considered the least. this ranking does not diminish the importance of any principle, as all are required to establish a vibrant das ecosystem. when a risk could be associated with multiple principles, it is assigned to the principle of highest priority. by doing so, we not only ensure a concise framework presentation but also prioritize the risk management process. detailed controls description: controls are mapped to the risks they are mitigating in a way that one control addresses either one or multiple risks. download the digital asset securities control principles. building the digital asset securities ecosystem 24 1. legal certainty this figure shows the risks associated with the principle legal certainty, as well as the controls to mitigate these risks: risks controls c1-l participation guidelines: establish fair and open but risk-based criteria financial, jurisdictional, etc. for user types and third- party service providers permitted to participate in a product, program, or service offering. include advanced due diligence and continuous compliance monitoring tailored to digital asset markets, ensuring alignment with evolving jurisdictional regulations. c2-l product eligibility: identify clear standards and requirements for the product types e.g., bonds supported, including thorough due diligence for new listings and ongoing disclosure requirements. ensure transparency about the financial and operational health of issuers to maintain regulatory compliance and inform stakeholders. c3-l network and oracle vetting: conduct thorough checks on network and oracle alignment with dlt standards and governance structures before integrating third-party tools. validate reliability and security slas for all networks and oracles rigorously. r1 digital asset legal noncompliance c4-l participant roles, responsibilities, and obligations: clearly define and document service participants roles, responsibilities, and obligations, integrating geographic and identity-specific nuances to align with legal and operational standards by jurisdiction. risk of financial loss or other damages due to noncompliance c5-l service providers responsibilities / limitation of liability: clearly document the roles, responsibilities, with rapidly evolving global legal and obligations of the service provider and cover both legal and operational aspects of a given service. moreover, standards governing digital assets. this includes challenges provisions that describe limitations of liability for a given service provider must be clearly defined. in adapting to diverse regulatory c6-l terms and conditions: establish a legal basis for a service based on rules and/or contractual agreements that bind both the environments, ensuring compliance across jurisdictions, and managing service provider and stakeholders. the terms of service should also establish the parameters for transfer, custody, control of assets the complexities of integrating consistent with applicable laws, regulations, and other regulatory requirements for the service provider and stakeholders. digital and conventional asset regulatory frameworks. c7-l governance: define clear governance arrangements, detailing oversight and management of the service. c8-l rule enforcement and arrangements: monitor and enforce rules effectively, and maintain the authority to discipline, limit, suspend, or terminate participant activities, as well as to halt and resume transactions for certain assets i.e., security tokens as necessary. c9-l regulatory approval and oversight: complete all required rule filings, no-action relief, or other regulatory approvals and notifications prior to implementation. c46-n data lineage: implement a comprehensive data lineage process for transactions and related data processes. this process must track the journey of data from its origin through all transformations and uses until its final state. l legal, s smart contract governance, r resilience and data protection, n network settlement building the digital asset securities ecosystem 25 1. legal certainty continued risks controls c32-r audit trail: maintain a comprehensive record of digital asset events / transactions, both on-chain and relevant external activities, with precise synchronized time stamps. enforce standards for synchronizing clocks across all dlt systems and external activity sources to ensure uniform time-stamping. the audit trail must support the full-system recovery and verification of the process for resilience purposes. c47-n encumbrance mechanism: implement a process to encumber funds or securities, preventing double spending until the transaction is fully settled. r2 unclear settlement finality c48-n settlement proofs: provide verifiable proof or evidence that different transaction legs were finalized, including their precise time stamps across various networks. settlement finality is not achieved or/and settlement status unclear. c49-n fail to settle process: implement procedures to reverse, cancel, or otherwise undo transactions and / or its economic impacts in the event of a settlement failure. c50-n transaction sequencing: implement nonces and/or transaction sequencing models that ensure transactions are processed in the appropriate order and prevent replay attacks. c51-n cross ledger data and inventory balances: track shared data and reconcile or balance inventory across networks. c4-l participant roles, responsibilities, and obligations: clearly define and document service participants roles, responsibilities, r3 smart contract and obligations, integrating geographic and identity-specific nuances to align with legal and operational standards by jurisdiction. legal enforceability c13-s smart contract auditing guidelines: establish comprehensive guidelines for auditing smart contracts, which are designed differences in the legal status, as machine-executable legal agreements, to ensure not only their compliance with relevant laws but also to explicitly verify and recognition, and enforceability reflect their enforceability terms. these guidelines should include detailed procedures for reviewing the legal and technical aspects of smart contracts in various of smart contracts to validate their ability to be enforced as per the terms set within them under applicable legal frameworks. jurisdictions, which could impact cross-border transactions c14-s certification: ensure that when smart contracts are deployed to networks that are governed by different parties, and asset custody. there are processes in place such that a trusted party can validate the integrity of a given smart contract. l legal, s smart contract governance, r resilience and data protection, n network settlement building the digital asset securities ecosystem 26 2. regulatory compliance this figure shows the risks associated with the principle regulatory compliance, as well as the controls to mitigate these risks: risks controls c10-l asset safeguarding and segregation: implement stringent controls to ensure customer assets are safeguarded r4 unauthorized and segregated from the custodian s or broker-dealer s own assets. this includes maintaining customer assets with a investor holdings trusted, regulated custodian and establishing clear separation protocols to prevent asset commingling and misuse. potential for regulatory non- compliance and financial c15-s investor compliance and access control: implement mechanisms that only allow authorized investors that repercussions if a noncompliant are in good compliance standing e.g., kyc, sanctions, etc. to hold registered securities, while restricting others or unauthorized investor holds or who are not, which could be facilitated by allow lists, verifiable credentials, or other relevant protocols. transfers a digital asset security. this includes breaches of investor c16-s multiparty transaction validation: implement collaborative transaction validation mechanism that requires accreditation, investment caps, approvals from multiple authorized parties to enhance transaction security. this mechanism includes provisions for or other regulatory standards periodic updates to address emerging security challenges and maintain compliance with industry standards. not related to anti-money laundering aml and counter- c52-n compliance and policy management: implement and enforce transaction policies consistently terrorist financing ctf . across all networks. include mechanisms to verify and record compliance for each transaction. c15-s investor compliance and access control: implement mechanisms that only allow authorized investors that are in good compliance standing e.g., kyc, sanctions, etc. to hold registered securities, while restricting others r5 money laundering and who are not, which could be facilitated by allow-lists, verifiable credentials, or other relevant protocols. terrorist financing risks c16-s multiparty transaction validation: implement collaborative transaction validation mechanism that requires potential for misuse of the platform approvals from multiple authorized parties to enhance transaction security. this mechanism includes provisions for for obscuring illicit funds or funding periodic updates to address emerging security challenges and maintain compliance with industry standards. terrorism, due to inadequate aml or ctf controls. this risk involves c7-l governance: define clear governance arrangements, detailing oversight and management of the service. failure to implement effective kyc procedures, insufficient transaction c8-l rule enforcement and arrangements: monitor and enforce rules effectively, and maintain the authority to discipline, limit, suspend, monitoring, and noncompliance or terminate participant activities, as well as to halt and resume transactions for certain assets i.e., security tokens as necessary. with mandatory financial reporting standards, leading to c52-n compliance and policy management: implement and enforce transaction policies consistently legal and reputational damage. across all networks. include mechanisms to verify and record compliance for each transaction. l legal, s smart contract governance, r resilience and data protection, n network settlement building the digital asset securities ecosystem 27 2. regulatory compliance continued risks controls r6 dlt network suitability / adaptability c3-l network and oracle vetting: conduct thorough checks on network and oracle alignment with dlt standards and governance structures before integrating third-party tools. validate reliability and security slas for all networks and oracles rigorously. the dlt network may currently be unsuitable, or struggle to align with the rapidly evolving technological standards and/or regulations required for managing digital asset securities e.g., smart contracts may not be flexible enough to accommodate future regulatory changes, leading c7-l governance: define clear governance arrangements, detailing oversight and management of the service. to potential noncompliance and/ or and operational inefficiencies . c2-l product eligibility: identify clear standards and requirements for the product types e.g., bonds supported, including thorough due diligence for new listings and ongoing disclosure requirements. ensure transparency about the financial and operational health of issuers to maintain regulatory compliance and inform stakeholders. r7 digital asset c11-l policies and procedures: document comprehensive policies and procedures that cover all aspects of business operations and it regulatory functionalities, including protocols for blockchain management and smart contract deployment. incorporate regular testing strategies noncompliance such as simulations, stress tests, and security audits to ensure compliance with security standards and regulatory requirements. regularly update these policies and testing methods to align with technological advancements and regulatory changes. securities are noncompliant with varied and possibly conflicting c16-s multiparty transaction validation: implement collaborative transaction validation mechanism that requires securities regulations e.g., codes approvals from multiple authorized parties to enhance transaction security. this mechanism includes provisions for of conduct, standards set by periodic updates to address emerging security challenges and maintain compliance with industry standards. government bodies, or industry regulators across disparate c33-r data life cycle management: manage and document the process of data jurisdictions and asset classes. collection, usage, transfer, storage, security, retention, and deletion. c34-r data subject access rights enforcement: create privileged roles that have the right to access data, amend data, or respond to requests for a given person s data to be erased and where appropriate, arrangements detailing oversight and management of the service. l legal, s smart contract governance, r resilience and data protection, n network settlement building the digital asset securities ecosystem 28 2. regulatory compliance continued risks controls c4-l participant roles, responsibilities, and obligations: clearly define and document service participants roles, responsibilities, r8 dispute resolution and obligations, integrating geographic and identity-specific nuances to align with legal and operational standards by jurisdiction. the risk that decentralized governance within dlt environments may hinder predictable dispute c17-s dispute resolution mechanism: implement a mechanism for dispute resolution that provides clear escalation paths resolution across networks. and ensures consistent outcomes across dlt networks. c8-l rule enforcement and arrangements: monitor and enforce rules effectively, and maintain the authority to discipline, limit, suspend, r9 market abuse or terminate participant activities, as well as to halt and resume transactions for certain assets i.e., security tokens as necessary. the risk of insufficient surveillance to prevent market manipulation, ensuring transparent and fair c35-r event monitoring and alerts: implement a system to monitor and audit operations in real time and automatically generate practices align with market alerts. ensure that alerts are triggered based on predefined thresholds of key metrics to promptly identify and respond to operational integrity standards. anomalies or deviations from standard procedures. l legal, s smart contract governance, r resilience and data protection, n network settlement building the digital asset securities ecosystem 29 3. resilience and security this figure shows the risks associated with the principle resilience and security, as well as the controls to mitigate these risks: risks controls c3-l network and oracle vetting: conduct thorough checks on network and oracle alignment with dlt standards and governance structures before integrating third-party tools. validate reliability and security slas for all networks and oracles rigorously. c36-r redundancy and concurrency: ensure technology resilience capabilities are in place to guarantee continuity of service and that there isn t a single point of failure due to a logical loss of a major dlt / network node or loss of all nodes in a geographic region. r10 network integrity c37-r backups: regularly record and store copies of the ledger and service-related data to prevent the integrity of the overall dlt network is compromised due to an loss of data integrity or availability due to destruction or corruption of data. attack, issue with the consensus algorithm, manipulated through c38-r failure prevention, detection and recovery: implement processes and mechanisms for detecting nodes with supermajority power, etc. failures and seamlessly transitioning to backup systems to prevent disruptions and maintain data integrity. these processes entail reporting, recovering, and resolving several different types of failures. c39-r recovery testing: regularly simulate and validate recovery processes to ensure the system s ability to restore data accurately and securely in the case of unexpected incidents, such as failures and crashes, to test the recovery performance of the system, including industry required performance testing. c36-r redundancy and concurrency: establish a legal basis for a service based on rules and/or contractual agreements that bind both the service provider and stakeholders. the terms of service should also establish the parameters for transfer, custody, control of assets consistent with applicable laws, regulations and other regulatory requirements for the service provider and stakeholders. r11 network traffic attack c37-r backups: regularly record and store copies of the ledger and service-related data to prevent loss of data integrity or availability due to destruction or corruption of data. the dlt network cannot be accessed due to a network c38-r failure prevention, detection and recovery: implement processes and mechanisms for detecting traffic attack such as distributed failures and seamlessly transitioning to backup systems to prevent disruptions and maintain data integrity. denial of service ddos . these processes entail reporting, recovering, and resolving several different types of failures. c46-n data lineage: implement a comprehensive data lineage process for transactions and related data processes. this process must track the journey of data from its origin through all transformations and uses until its final state. l legal, s smart contract governance, r resilience and data protection, n network settlement building the digital asset securities ecosystem 30 3. resilience and security continued risks controls c14-s certification: ensure that when smart contracts are deployed to networks that are governed by different parties, there are processes in place such that a trusted party can validate the integrity of a given smart contract. c16-s multiparty transaction validation: implement collaborative transaction validation mechanism that requires r12 smart contract approvals from multiple authorized parties to enhance transaction security. this mechanism includes provisions for periodic updates to address emerging security challenges and maintain compliance with industry standards. integrity c18-s code auditing: ensure all smart contract code is tested for vulnerabilities, bugs, the integrity of the smart performance issues, or defects by an independent third-party auditor. contract on the dlt network is compromised due to a code or c32-r audit trail: maintain a comprehensive record of digital asset events / transactions, both on-chain and relevant external activities, external libraries vulnerabilities. with precise synchronized time stamps. enforce standards for synchronizing clocks across all dlt systems and external activity sources to ensure uniform time-stamping. the audit trail must support the full-system recovery and verification of the process for resilience purposes. c46-n data lineage: implement a comprehensive data lineage process for transactions and related data processes. this process must track the journey of data from its origin through all transformations and uses until its final state. c50-n transaction sequencing: implement nonces and/or transaction sequencing models that ensure transactions are r13 compromised processed in the appropriate order and prevent replay attacks. inter-network transfer inter-network asset transfer integrity c51-n cross ledger data and inventory balances: track shared data and reconcile or balance inventory across networks. is compromised. c3-l network and oracle vetting: conduct thorough checks on network and oracle alignment with dlt standards and governance structures before integrating third-party tools. validate reliability and security slas for all networks and oracles rigorously. r14 poisoned oracle c32-r audit trail: maintain a comprehensive record of digital asset events / transactions, both on-chain and relevant external activities, with precise synchronized time stamps. enforce standards for synchronizing clocks across all dlt systems and external activity sources to off-chain data tampering from ensure uniform time-stamping. the audit trail must support the full-system recovery and verification of the process for resilience purposes. a compromised oracle i.e., poisoned oracle scenario . c35-r event monitoring and alerts: implement a system to monitor and audit operations in real time and automatically generate alerts. ensure that alerts are triggered based on predefined thresholds of key metrics to promptly identify and respond to operational anomalies or deviations from standard procedures. l legal, s smart contract governance, r resilience and data protection, n network settlement building the digital asset securities ecosystem 31 3. resilience and security continued risks controls c40-r private data segregation: segregate and restrict access to confidential data such as personal information, client-, and firm-specific proprietary data that should not be broadly available on a given network. r15 private data leakage c41-r anonymization and pseudonymization: anonymize or pseudonymize sensitive data to protect individual or entity privacy. customers personal data or c42-r identity verification: establish a system or process for verifying client identities and compliance status, which proprietary data is leaked or stolen. may include internal mechanisms, third-party digital identity verification services, or other suitable methods. c46-n data lineage: implement a comprehensive data lineage process for transactions and related data processes. this process must track the journey of data from its origin through all transformations and uses until its final state. c18-s code auditing: ensure all smart contract code is tested for vulnerabilities, bugs, performance issues or defects by an independent third-party auditor. r16 exploited consensus algorithm c19-s smart contract entitlements: restrict access to smart contract data and functions based on standard roles using fine-grain entitlements. consensus mechanism is exploited such that the network may function inappropriately, leading c32-r audit trail: maintain a comprehensive record of digital asset events / transactions, both on-chain and relevant external activities, to unauthorized transfers of digital with precise synchronized time stamps. enforce standards for synchronizing clocks across all dlt systems and external activity sources to assets, unauthorized censorship ensure uniform time-stamping. the audit trail must support the full-system recovery and verification of the process for resilience purposes. of transactions, double-spending, or operational disruption to the transaction validation process. c35-r event monitoring and alerts: implement a system to monitor and audit operations in real time and automatically generate alerts. ensure that alerts are triggered based on predefined thresholds of key metrics to promptly identify and respond to operational anomalies or deviations from standard procedures. r17 quantum computing threat c20-s quantum-resistant signature algorithms: implement a quantum-resistant signature algorithm, and a periodic audit process for reviewing and documenting quantum-resistant algorithms utilized within the system to ensure ongoing security efficacy quantum computing is able to break against quantum threats. asymmetric encryption and back into a private key from a public key. l legal, s smart contract governance, r resilience and data protection, n network settlement building the digital asset securities ecosystem 32 3. resilience and security continued risks controls r18 interoperability security risks c21-s intraoperability between dlt networks: adhere to industry-accepted cross-network communication protocols specifically security vulnerabilities arising from designed for blockchain interoperability. this includes standardized protocols for asset representation, transaction formats, and data connecting the digital asset platform exchange between different blockchain networks, ensuring seamless and secure interactions across diverse blockchain platforms. with other blockchain networks or traditional financial systems. c35-r event monitoring and alerts: implement a system to monitor and audit operations in realtime and automatically generate alerts. ensure that alerts are triggered based on predefined thresholds of key metrics to promptly identify and respond to operational anomalies or deviations from standard procedures. c36-r redundancy and concurrency: ensure technology resilience capabilities are in place to guarantee continuity of service, and there isn t a single point of failure due to a logical loss of a major dlt / network node or loss of all nodes in a geographic region. r19 network outage c37-r backups: regularly record and store copies of the ledger and service-related data to prevent loss of data integrity or availability due to destruction or corruption of data. a singular event, such as a natural disaster, a common failure point, or a pervasive network issue, c38-r failure prevention, detection and recovery: implement processes and mechanisms for detecting failures and seamlessly could simultaneously incapacitate transitioning to backup systems to prevent disruptions and maintain data integrity. these processes entail reporting, recovering, and multiple critical components, resolving several different types of failures. nodes, or networks, resulting in extensive operational disruptions and systemic instability. c39-r recovery testing: regularly simulate and validate recovery processes to ensure the system s ability to restore data accurately and securely in the case of unexpected incidents, such as failures and crashes, to test the recovery performance of the system, including industry required performance testing. c43-r geographical distribution: strategically distribute data across diverse geographic locations, within regulatory boundaries, to minimize the impact of regional disruptions and ensure systems can be operationally rotated. l legal, s smart contract governance, r resilience and data protection, n network settlement building the digital asset securities ecosystem 33 3. resilience and security continued risks controls r20 smart contract defects c18-s code auditing: ensure all smart contract code is tested for vulnerabilities, bugs, performance issues or defects dlt smart contracts are by an independent third-party auditor. not operational due to a software bug or defect. c37-r backups: regularly record and store copies of the ledger and service-related data to prevent loss of data integrity or availability due to destruction or corruption of data. r21 complexity of change management c38-r failure prevention, detection, and recovery: implement processes and mechanisms for detecting failures and seamlessly transitioning to backup systems to prevent disruptions and maintain data integrity. these processes entail reporting, recovering, the decentralized and immutable and resolving several different types of failures. nature of dlt presents substantial challenges for network modifications. this risk particularly affects the c39-r recovery testing: regularly simulate and validate recovery processes to ensure the system s ability to restore data accurately platform s ability to deploy new and securely in the case of unexpected incidents, such as failures and crashes, to test the recovery performance of the system, features, update smart contracts, including industry required performance testing. or address vulnerabilities through software patches. the consensus requirement for changes introduces c44-r feature deployment process: establish processes for deploying new features or updates that minimize complexities in timely adaptation and disruption and ensure network integrity. innovation, making the management of software updates, enhancements, and security fixes inherently difficult. c46-n data lineage: implement a comprehensive data lineage process for transactions and related data processes. this process must track the journey of data from its origin through all transformations and uses until its final state. l legal, s smart contract governance, r resilience and data protection, n network settlement building the digital asset securities ecosystem 34 3. resilience and security continued risks controls c21-s intraoperability between dlt networks: adhere to industry-accepted cross-network communication protocols specifically designed for blockchain interoperability. this includes standardized protocols for asset representation, transaction formats, and data exchange between different blockchain networks, ensuring seamless and secure interactions across diverse blockchain platforms. c22-s token specification model: define smart contract requirements through a human readable markup language that models smart contract specifications and can be easily understood by business, operations, and it personas. c23-s data / properties: ensure data properties embedded into a smart contract conform to recognized nomenclature and conventions. data must sufficiently identify and describe the security e.g., standard security ids and incorporate or have access to the data required to process life cycle events. r22 operational errors c24-s functions / behaviors: conform to a common set of functions, behaviors, and service level agreements that support various security life cycle operations such as issuance and settlement. errors, failures, or bottlenecks arise during the security life cycle as smart c25-s bookkeeping: conform to an accounting model that supports both private non-publicly traded and public publicly contract code does not conform traded securities. adapt the accounting model to comply with international digital asset securities reporting standards. to standard market practices. c26-s account structure: conform to a common model to represent investor accounts that delineate what accounts are customer vs. proprietary and have the appropriate level of attribution. c35-r event monitoring and alerts: implement a system to monitor and audit operations in real time and automatically generate alerts. ensure that alerts are triggered based on predefined thresholds of key metrics to promptly identify and respond to operational anomalies or deviations from standard procedures. c45-r data integrity correction: create privileged roles that can edit and modify data to ensure the accuracy, consistency, and reliability of financial records. l legal, s smart contract governance, r resilience and data protection, n network settlement building the digital asset securities ecosystem 35 3. resilience and security continued risks controls c10-l asset safeguarding and segregation: implement stringent controls to ensure customer assets are safeguarded and segregated from the custodian s or broker-dealer s own assets. this includes maintaining customer assets with a trusted, regulated custodian and establishing clear separation protocols to prevent asset commingling and misuse. c16-s multiparty transaction validation: implement collaborative transaction validation mechanism that requires approvals from multiple authorized parties to enhance transaction security. this mechanism includes provisions for r23 asset periodic updates to address emerging security challenges and maintain compliance with industry standards. mismanagement c19-s smart contract entitlements: restrict access to smart contract data and functions based on standard roles digital assets are at risk of being lost, stolen, or erroneously transferred due using fine-grain entitlements. to breaches in operational controls, system vulnerabilities, or inadequate asset management protocols. c32-r audit trail: maintain a comprehensive record of digital asset events / transactions, both on-chain and relevant external activities, with precise synchronized time stamps. enforce standards for synchronizing clocks across all dlt systems and external activity sources to ensure uniform time-stamping. the audit trail must support the full-system recovery and verification of the process for resilience purposes. c46-n data lineage: implement a comprehensive data lineage process for transactions and related data processes. this process must track the journey of data from its origin through all transformations and uses until its final state. l legal, s smart contract governance, r resilience and data protection, n network settlement building the digital asset securities ecosystem 36 3. resilience and security continued risks controls c19-s smart contract entitlements: restrict access to smart contract data and functions based on standard roles r24 immutable using fine-grain entitlements. transactions due to the nature of immutable c32-r audit trail: maintain a comprehensive record of digital asset events / transactions, both on-chain and relevant external activities, blockchains, if there is an error with precise synchronized time stamps. enforce standards for synchronizing clocks across all dlt systems and external activity sources to or processing issue, securities ensure uniform time-stamping. the audit trail must support the full-system recovery and verification of the process for resilience purposes. cannot be transferred back to the original owner. c34-r data subject access rights enforcement: create privileged roles that have the right to access data, amend data, or respond to requests for a given person s data to be erased, where appropriate. c4-l participant roles, responsibilities, and obligations: clearly define and document service participants roles, responsibilities, and obligations, integrating geographic and identity-specific nuances to align with legal and operational standards by jurisdiction. r25 inadequate c10-l asset safeguarding and segregation: implement stringent controls to ensure customer assets are safeguarded managerial oversight and segregated from the custodian s or broker-dealer s own assets. this includes maintaining customer assets with a trusted, regulated custodian and establishing clear separation protocols to prevent asset commingling and misuse. the risk that operations are compromised due to insufficiently qualified management and/ or insufficient governance c35-r event monitoring and alerts: implement a system to monitor and audit operations in real time and structures, potentially leading to automatically generate alerts. ensure that alerts are triggered based on predefined thresholds of key metrics operational vulnerabilities and to promptly identify and respond to operational anomalies or deviations from standard procedures. regulatory noncompliance. c53-n continuous management education: mandate ongoing training programs for management in digital asset security and regulatory compliance. include fit and proper tests for management to strengthen oversight. l legal, s smart contract governance, r resilience and data protection, n network settlement building the digital asset securities ecosystem 37 4. safeguarding customer assets this figure shows the risks associated with the principle safeguarding customer assets, as well as the controls to mitigate these risks: risks controls c4-l participant roles, responsibilities, and obligations: clearly define and document service participants roles, responsibilities, and obligations, integrating geographic and identity-specific nuances to align with legal and operational standards by jurisdiction. c10-l asset safeguarding and segregation: implement stringent controls to ensure customer assets are safeguarded and segregated from the custodian s or broker-dealer s own assets. this includes maintaining customer assets with a trusted, regulated custodian and establishing clear separation protocols to prevent asset commingling and misuse. c16-s multiparty transaction validation: implement collaborative transaction validation mechanism that requires approvals from multiple authorized parties to enhance transaction security. this mechanism includes provisions for periodic updates to address emerging security challenges and maintain compliance with industry standards. r26 asset misappropriation c19-s smart contract entitlements: restrict access to smart contract data and functions based on standard roles using fine-grain entitlements. there is misappropriation of digital asset securities through various means, including but not limited to code vulnerabilities, c27-s key life cycle management: implement a secure multiparty cryptographic system that ensures comprehensive unauthorized actions by key life cycle management. this system should include detailed protocols for the generation, distribution, storage, intermediaries, or fraudulent and secure destruction of cryptographic keys. ensure that these key management practices rigorously prevent misuse of access privileges. unauthorized access and are in full compliance with current regulatory standards for digital asset security. additionally, incorporate regular reviews and updates to adapt to emerging security technologies and threats. c32-r audit trail: maintain a comprehensive record of digital asset events / transactions, both on-chain and relevant external activities, with precise synchronized time stamps. enforce standards for synchronizing clocks across all dlt systems and external activity sources to ensure uniform time-stamping. the audit trail must support the full-system recovery and verification of the process for resilience purposes. l legal, s smart contract governance, r resilience and data protection, n network settlement building the digital asset securities ecosystem 38 4. safeguarding customer assets continued risks controls c10-l asset safeguarding and segregation: implement stringent controls to ensure customer assets are safeguarded and segregated from the custodian s or broker-dealer s own assets. this includes maintaining customer assets with a trusted, regulated custodian and establishing clear separation protocols to prevent asset commingling and misuse. r27 unauthorized smart c19-s smart contract entitlements: restrict access to smart contract data and functions based on standard roles contract access using fine-grain entitlements. there is unauthorized manipulation or exploitation of smart contract functions due to factors such as technical vulnerabilities, inadequate c27-s key life cycle management: implement a secure multiparty cryptographic system that ensures comprehensive access controls, and compromised key life cycle management. this system should include detailed protocols for the generation, distribution, storage, security protocols. this includes and secure destruction of cryptographic keys. ensure that these key management practices rigorously prevent but is not limited to unauthorized unauthorized access and are in full compliance with current regulatory standards for digital asset security. additionally, alterations to smart contract code, incorporate regular reviews and updates to adapt to emerging security technologies and threats. data breaches via smart contract interfaces, and exploitation of flaws in smart contract design. c32-r audit trail: maintain a comprehensive record of digital asset events / transactions, both on-chain and relevant external activities, with precise synchronized time stamps. enforce standards for synchronizing clocks across all dlt systems and external activity sources to ensure uniform time-stamping. the audit trail must support the full-system recovery and verification of the process for resilience purposes. c46-n data lineage: implement a comprehensive data lineage process for transactions and related data processes. this process must track the journey of data from its origin through all transformations and uses until its final state. l legal, s smart contract governance, r resilience and data protection, n network settlement building the digital asset securities ecosystem 39 4. safeguarding customer assets continued risks controls c16-s multiparty transaction validation: implement collaborative transaction validation mechanism that requires approvals from multiple authorized parties to enhance transaction security. this mechanism includes provisions for periodic updates to address emerging security challenges and maintain compliance with industry standards. c19-s smart contract entitlements: restrict access to smart contract data and functions based on standard roles r28 insufficient smart using fine-grain entitlements. contract control c28-s smart contract roles: define standard roles to determine who can access smart contract data and functions. a custodian and/or relevant intermediary does not have the requisite control over the c29-s emergency stop: ensure that smart contracts have an embedded kill switch or process to halt all activity, digital asset securities / tokens which can be accessed by a role with elevated permissions. or smart contracts functions. c30-s account pause: ensure that a user can freeze or pause activity for a given investor or wallet, controlled by either the agent of the investor or a role with elevated permissions. c31-s token pause: ensure that a user can freeze or pause activity for all or some of the token inventory, controlled by either the agent of the investor or a role with elevated permissions. c6-l terms and conditions: establish a legal basis for a service based on rules and/or contractual agreements that bind both the service provider and stakeholders. the terms of service should also establish the parameters for transfer, custody, control of assets consistent with applicable laws, regulations, and other regulatory requirements for the service provider and stakeholders. r29 financial institution insolvency c10-l asset safeguarding and segregation: implement stringent controls to ensure customer assets are safeguarded and segregated from the custodian s or broker-dealer s own assets. this includes maintaining customer assets with a a broker-dealer or custodian trusted, regulated custodian and establishing clear separation protocols to prevent asset commingling and misuse. becomes insolvent, and protections are not in place to ensure customer assets are bankruptcy remote. c25-s bookkeeping: conform to an accounting model that supports both private non-publicly traded and public publicly traded securities. adapt the accounting model to comply with international digital asset securities reporting standards. c26-s account structure: conform to a common model to represent investor accounts that delineate what accounts are customer vs. proprietary and have the appropriate level of attribution. l legal, s smart contract governance, r resilience and data protection, n network settlement building the digital asset securities ecosystem 40 5. connectivity and interoperability this figure shows the risks associated with the principle connectivity and interoperability, as well as the controls to mitigate these risks: risks controls c21-s intraoperability between dlt networks: adhere to industry-accepted cross-network communication protocols specifically designed for blockchain interoperability. this includes standardized protocols for asset representation, transaction formats, and data r30 interoperability risk exchange between different blockchain networks, ensuring seamless and secure interactions across diverse blockchain platforms. the risk pertains to the complexities c35-r event monitoring and alerts: implement a system to monitor and audit operations in real time and automatically generate of integrating digital assets with alerts. ensure that alerts are triggered based on predefined thresholds of key metrics to promptly identify and respond to operational traditional financial systems and, anomalies or deviations from standard procedures. potentially, multiple blockchain architectures e.g., public, public c54-n legacy infrastructure integration: provide a method or abstraction layer that enables users to access their security holdings -permissioned, and private to through either classic or new dlt infrastructure. ensure seamless transactions across the entire financial spectrum. c55-n third-party integration guidelines: establish rigorous guidelines for third-party services integration to maintain security across interconnected platforms. r31 network utilization and fragmentation c56-n community engagement framework: ensure the existence of a stakeholder collaboration program that enhances risk management and platform security through active feedback and problem-solving channels. this program should provide specific the risk that a digital assets forums and channels for feedback, issue reporting, and collaborative problem-solving. establish best practices and shared standards platform faces diminished through active feedback and collaborative initiatives. operational viability and value due to low user engagement and transaction volume. l legal, s smart contract governance, r resilience and data protection, n network settlement building the digital asset securities ecosystem 41 6. operational scalability this figure shows the risks associated with the principle operational scalability, as well as the controls to mitigate these risks: risks controls c21-s intraoperability between dlt networks: adhere to industry-accepted cross-network communication protocols specifically designed for blockchain interoperability. this includes standardized protocols for asset representation, transaction formats, and data exchange between different blockchain networks, ensuring seamless and secure interactions across diverse blockchain platforms. c22-s token specification model: define smart contract requirements through a human readable markup language that models smart contract specifications and can be easily understood by business, operations, and it personas. c23-s data / properties: ensure data properties embedded into a smart contract conform to recognized nomenclature and conventions. data must sufficiently identify and describe the security e.g., standard security ids and incorporate or have access to the data required to process life cycle events. c24-s functions / behaviors: conform to a common set of functions, behaviors and service level r32 inability to scale agreements that support various security life cycle operations such as issuance and settlement. dlt networks may not efficiently c25-s bookkeeping: conform to an accounting model that supports both private non-publicly traded and public publicly manage or scale to accommodate traded securities. adapt the accounting model to comply with international digital asset securities reporting standards. surging transaction volumes, impacting critical functions such c26-s account structure: conform to a common model to represent investor accounts that delineate as post-trade capture and overall what accounts are customer vs. proprietary and have the appropriate level of attribution. transaction throughput including suitable customer support , potentially degrading system c28-s smart contract roles: define standard roles to determine who can access smart contract data and functions. performance and reliability. c29-s emergency stop: ensure that smart contracts have an embedded kill switch or process to halt all activity, which can be accessed by a role with elevated permissions. c30-s account pause: ensure that a user can freeze or pause activity for a given investor or wallet, controlled by either the agent of the investor or a role with elevated permissions. c31-s token pause: ensure that a user can freeze or pause activity for all or some of the token inventory, controlled by either the agent of the investor or a role with elevated permissions. c54-n legacy infrastructure integration: provide a method or abstraction layer that enables users to access their security holdings through either classic or new dlt infrastructure. l legal, s smart contract governance, r resilience and data protection, n network settlement building the digital asset securities ecosystem 42 6. operational scalability continued risks controls c35-r event monitoring and alerts: implement a system to monitor and audit operations in real time and r33 digital asset liquidity automatically generate alerts. ensure that alerts are triggered based on predefined thresholds of key metrics to promptly identify and respond to operational anomalies or deviations from standard procedures. this risk arises from the rapid and substantial liquidity shifts in digital asset markets, potentially amplified by real-time settlement c57-n liquidity management strategies: develop comprehensive strategies to actively manage liquidity levels for digital assets, and other settlement methods. ensuring the availability of sufficient resources to meet these needs in various market conditions. incorporate regular stress testing to evaluate the robustness of liquidity under various market conditions and ensure the adequacy of these asset pools. r34 reputational risk the inherent newness of dlt can enhance reputational risk due to c56-n community engagement framework: ensure the existence of a stakeholder collaboration program that its association with high-profile enhances risk management and platform security through active feedback and problem-solving channels. this controversies and the potential program should provide specific forums and channels for feedback, issue reporting, and collaborative problem- for misuse. public perception is solving. establish best practices and shared standards through active feedback and collaborative initiatives. influenced by dlt s complex nature, often leading to misunderstandings and negative connotations from its early-use cases. l legal, s smart contract governance, r resilience and data protection, n network settlement building the digital asset securities ecosystem 43 6. operational scalability continued risks controls c1-l participation guidelines: establish fair and open but risk-based criteria financial, jurisdictional, etc. for user types and third- party service providers permitted to participate in a product, program, or service offering. include advanced due diligence and continuous compliance monitoring tailored to digital asset markets, ensuring alignment with evolving jurisdictional regulations. r35 market inefficiency c3-l network and oracle vetting: conduct thorough checks on network and oracle alignment with dlt standards and governance structures before integrating third-party tools. validate reliability and security slas for all networks and oracles rigorously. the risk that structural issues or implementation frictions c7-l governance: define clear governance arrangements, detailing oversight and management of the service. within the dlt ecosystem lead to significant disparities between the c11-l policies and procedures: document comprehensive policies and procedures that cover all aspects of business operations and it intrinsic value of digital assets and their market pricing, facilitating functionalities, including protocols for blockchain management and smart contract deployment. incorporate regular testing strategies undue arbitrage opportunities. such as simulations, stress tests, and security audits to ensure compliance with security standards and regulatory requirements. regularly update these policies and testing methods to align with technological advancements and regulatory changes. c18-s code auditing: ensure all smart contract code is tested for vulnerabilities, bugs, performance issues or defects by an independent third-party auditor. r36 inadequate stakeholder / client understanding of digital asset securities risks associated with inadequate c12-l education and training for stakeholders on digital asset securities: implement comprehensive education and training educational and training programs programs for all stakeholders involved with digital asset securities. these programs should cover the fundamental principles for stakeholders and clients. it of digital assets, the associated technologies, regulatory compliance requirements, risk factors, and best practices. emphasizes the essential need for comprehensive and effective training to ensure that all involved parties fully understand the technological frameworks, regulatory landscapes, and operational processes unique to digital asset securities. l legal, s smart contract governance, r resilience and data protection, n network settlement building the digital asset securities ecosystem 44 contributors steering committee: this white paper is a synergistic collaboration between dtcc, clearstream, and euroclear, augmented by nadine chakar support from the boston consulting group. the strategic direction and guidance originated from the steering managing director and global head of dtcc digital assets committee, while the working group consisting of industry experts and practitioners drove the effort and provided oversight. in addition, the steering committee and working group would like to express their gratitude to the contributing partners for their expertise and for sharing their valuable perspectives during the development of the dascp framework. jens hachmeister managing director and head of issuer services and new digital markets at clearstream philippe laurensy managing director and head of product strategy and innovation at euroclear kaj burchardi managing director, bcg platinion netherlands building the digital asset securities ecosystem 45 working group renée berman managing director, dtcc digital assets doug meyers director, css strategy, dtcc hitesh goradia director, technology research and innovation robert lanni analyst, dtcc digital assets thilo derenbach head of sales and business development digital securities services, clearstream dr. vic arulchandran, deutsche börse director, deutsche boerse head of digital product and market design, clearstream jorgen ouaknine global head of innovation and digital assets, euroclear stephanie lheureux head of digital assets excellence center at euroclear frédéric brugère managing director and partner bernhard kronfellner partner and associate director bob baksa associate director alexandre lefoulon principal it architect building the digital asset securities ecosystem 46 contributing partners siddharthan rajagopalan nathalie poli inna verdini business architect - advanced product manager, fnality global head of digital controls and technologies, chief technology governance, state street digital olivier portenseigne office, barclays chief executive officer, fundsdlt sam ten cate lee braine managing director, paolo brignardello managing director - advanced state street digital chief commercial officer, fundsdlt technologies, chief technology justin mccormack office, barclays ami ben-david senior vice president, head founder ceo, ownera janina farr of state street digital legal head of digital strategy, bny and senior managing counsel, natasha benson state street digital chief operating officer, ownera mark raynes head of solutions, chainlink labs marianne demarchi milena kohlhofer chief executive emea, swift head of sales partnerships, angie walker americas, ownera global head of banking and maredith hannon capital markets, chainlink labs head of business development, nicole lefevre digital assets, wisdom tree banking sales lead, r3 eric saraniecki digital asset rohan ranadive marcus van abbé head of risk management, head of digital market infrastructures, r3 varun paul digital assets, wisdomtree senior director for fmis and alisa dicaprio blockchains, fireblocks chief economist, r3 john hallahan derek neo director of business head of depository, sgx solutions, fireblocks building the digital asset securities ecosystem 47 about dtcc, clearstream, euroclear, and bcg with over 50 years of experience, dtcc is the premier post-trade market infrastructure for the global financial services industry. from 20 locations around the world, dtcc, through its subsidiaries, automates, centralizes, and standardizes the processing of financial transactions, mitigating risk, increasing transparency, enhancing performance, and driving efficiency for thousands of broker-dealers, custodian banks, and asset managers. industry-owned and governed, the firm innovates purposefully, simplifying the complexities of clearing, settlement, asset servicing, transaction processing, trade reporting, and data services across asset classes, bringing enhanced resilience and soundness to existing financial markets, while advancing the digital asset ecosystem. to learn more, visit dtcc.com. clearstream is the innovative and trusted post-trade business for the global markets. it runs the leading securities and funds servicing ecosystems of tomorrow. the company operates the german and luxembourg central securities depositories and an international central securities depository for the eurobonds market. with 18 trillion euros in assets under custody, it is one of the world s largest settlement and custody firms for domestic and international securities. its digital post-trade platform d7 provides a fully digital alternative to conventional physical issuance and processing of securities. it also delivers premier fund execution, distribution, data, and reporting services, covering over 55 fund markets worldwide. clearstream is part of the deutsche börse group, an international exchange organization and provider of innovative market infrastructures. to learn more, visit us at clearstream.com. euroclear group is the financial industry s trusted provider of post-trade services. guided by its purpose, euroclear innovates to bring safety, efficiency, and connections to financial markets to sustain economic growth. euroclear provides settlement and custody to domestic and cross-border securities for bonds, equities and derivatives, and investment funds. as a proven, resilient capital market infrastructure, euroclear is committed to delivering risk-mitigation, automation, and efficiency at scale for its global client franchise. the euroclear group comprises euroclear bank, the international csd, as well as euroclear belgium, euroclear finland, euroclear france, euroclear nederland, euroclear sweden, euroclear uk and international and mfex by euroclear. to learn more, visit euroclear.com. boston consulting group is a global consulting firm that partners with leaders in business and society to tackle their most important challenges and capture their greatest opportunities. bcg s success depends on a spirit of deep collaboration and a global community of diverse individuals determined to make the world and each other better every day. to learn more, visit bcg.com. this paper is intended for informational purposes only. the information contained herein does not constitute legal, investment, tax, regulatory or accounting advice and should not be relied upon for such purpose by any person or entity. recipients of this paper should obtain guidance and/or advice, based on their own circumstances, from their own legal, investment, tax, regulatory or accounting advisors. the authors and contributors make no, and specifically disclaim all, representations and warranties as to title, non-infringement, accuracy, completeness, usefulness, or fitness for a particular purpose. recipients bear all risk associated with their use of the paper and the information contained herein. building the digital asset securities ecosystem 48