Digital Assets Regulation:
Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches
I N S I G H T R E P O R T
O C T O B E R 2 0 2 4
Images: Getty Images
Contents
Preface 3
Executive summary 4
Introduction 5
1 Regulatory approaches, outcomes and unintended consequences 7
1.1 European Union 9
1.2 Gibraltar 11
1.3 Hong Kong SAR, China 12
1.4 Japan 14
1.5 Singapore 16
1.6 Switzerland 18
1.7 United Arab Emirates 20
1.8 United Kingdom 22
1.9 United States of America 23
2 Recommendations 26
2.1 Anti-money laundering (AML) and know your customer 27
(KYC) recommendations
2.2 Regulatory and technical sandbox recommendations 28
2.3 Decentralized finance (DeFi) recommendations 29
2.4 Privacy and security policy recommendations 30
Conclusion 31
Contributors 32
Endnotes 35
Disclaimer
This document is published by the
World Economic Forum as a contribution
to a project, insight area or interaction.
The findings, interpretations and
conclusions expressed herein are a result
of a collaborative process facilitated and
endorsed by the World Economic Forum
but whose results do not necessarily
represent the views of the World Economic
Forum, nor the entirety of its Members,
Partners or other stakeholders.
© 2024 World Economic Forum. All rights
reserved. No part of this publication may
be reproduced or transmitted in any form
or by any means, including photocopying
and recording, or by any information
storage and retrieval system.
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches 2
October 2024 Digital Assets Regulation:
Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches
Preface
As the adoption of digital assets continues, 2024 Although there has been recent progress in digital
marks a pivotal moment for the global landscape of asset regulation, countries are taking divergent
digital asset regulation. As of early September 2024, approaches and have established different timelines
the total market capitalization of cryptocurrencies, for creation and implementation. Each jurisdiction is
one type of digital asset, was valued at $2.01 trillion developing regulations based on unique goals and
and stablecoins comprised 8.5% of this market, objectives, which risks a lack of coordination globally.
amounting to $171 billion.1 When it comes to the
status of regulation globally, according to a recent With these varying approaches, it is imperative
Bank for International Settlements (BIS) survey, two- that stakeholders collaborate to forge a secure and
thirds of the 86 jurisdictions surveyed were or will equitable regulatory environment. This necessitates
soon be regulating digital assets.2 The main goals of the sharing of learnings from global regulatory
implementing regulation are to protect investors and experiments, identifying both successful policies
consumers and maintain financial stability. and shortcomings. The analysis contained in this
report aims to highlight these critical regulatory
As regulatory developments continue, countries insights, enabling policy-makers and regulators
such as Australia, the United Kingdom, Brazil to craft effective and harmonized frameworks
and South Korea have this year committed to that promote innovation while safeguarding
unveiling new regulatory frameworks. In addition, stakeholders. As the global economy navigates the
the full rollout of the European Union’s Markets in complexities of digital assets, the report endeavours
Crypto-Assets (MiCA) regulation is poised to set a to contribute a clear and impartial perspective on
precedent for comprehensive digital asset oversight. the evolving regulatory landscape.
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches 3
Executive summary
This report analyses digital asset regulation
in several jurisdictions to identify unique
approaches and provide insights to policy-
makers and private-sector participants.
There is a need for clear guidelines in the fast- laundering (AML) and know your customer (KYC);
evolving digital assets industry. This report provides regulatory and technical sandboxes; decentralized
a close analysis of the regulatory frameworks in finance (DeFi); and privacy and security. These
nine jurisdictions and their unique approaches subjects surfaced as the most pressing during the
to policy creation and implementation. The work assessment, standing out as the industry’s most
builds on previous research undertaken by the prominent issues at this time.
World Economic Forum on digital asset regulation,
which established a foundation to further explore Drawing on this jurisdictional and topic-specific
the jurisdiction-specific approaches detailed in analysis, the report offers a set of recommendations
this new report. for both public- and private-sector stakeholders,
categorized by issue as summarized below.
By examining nine jurisdictions, the report draws
key lessons from each approach and reveals the – AML and KYC: Building on existing AML/
unintended consequences that may result from KYC foundations, focusing on the adoption
different regulatory frameworks. The nine jurisdictions of technology-enhanced solutions, global
are leading economies for digital asset activity and cooperation, and training and compliance
regulation implementation – the European Union; programmes, to help create a more secure
Gibraltar; Hong Kong SAR, China (Hong Kong); digital assets landscape in the future.
Japan; Singapore; Switzerland; the United Arab
Emirates; the United Kingdom; and the United States. – Regulatory and technical sandboxes:
The analysis enables leaders to take a jurisdictional Implementing clear sandbox objectives
view of both the potential advantages and the and support mechanisms and enabling the
disadvantages of implementing certain policies. collaborative participation of diverse and broad
networks in sandbox environments.
This investigation of each jurisdiction not only
enhances the understanding of the direct effects – DeFi: Prioritizing the need for risk mitigation
of regulatory methodologies but also provides and transparency as well as tailored licensing
context for predicting upcoming trends and models and clear definitions to refine these
preparing for potential challenges in the evolving regulations in a controlled setting without
digital assets landscape. Through such analysis, compromising the unique nature of DeFi
policy-makers and regulators can anticipate the and its technological advancements.
impacts of their decisions, better enabling them
to build and implement regulations that are in line – Privacy and security: Underscoring the need
with their intended goals. for strong data protection policies that prioritize
the consumer and include regular security
Across these nine jurisdictions, the report audits and compliance checks to safeguard
examines four key industry topics: anti-money personal and financial information.
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches 4
Introduction
The global regulatory landscape for digital
assets is evolving, with differences in regulatory
approaches between jurisdictions.
Digital assets continue to have a strong presence in Most are bringing forward bespoke regulation
the global economy, as evidenced by a significant (48%) because their existing regulatory frameworks
market capitalization.3 However, the legal status do not cover digital assets. Jurisdictions that
of cryptocurrencies varies significantly by country. have established or are developing a tailored
According to an analysis by the Atlantic Council, regulatory framework for stablecoins include the
cryptocurrencies are legal in 33 countries, partially United Kingdom, Hong Kong and Singapore,while
banned in 17 and generally prohibited in 10.4 the European Union is developing a framework
for digital assets more generally. In just 9% of
In an assessment of the status of digital asset jurisdictions, digital assets are subject to existing
regulation globally, the Bank for International financial regulation. To date, around 33% of
Settlements (BIS) noted that more than 60% of jurisdictions lack a regulatory framework and
responding jurisdictions possess or are creating a are not currently working on one.
regulatory framework for digital assets (Figure 1).5
FIGURE 1 Central bank responses to digital asset regulation survey
Regulatory framework for stablecoins and other cryptoassets
As a percentage of respondents, 2023
Presence in the jurisdictions Regulatory objectives
Yes Investor/consumer
protection
Currently under Protecting financial stability
development
No Countering illicit finance
Uncertain Fair, efficient and transparent
markets, innovation and/or
competition
No answer Safety and soundness
of regulated institutions/
infrastructures
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 0% 20% 40% 60% 80%
Bespoke regulation General financial regulation Bespoke regulation General financial regulation No
Uncertain No answer
Source: Bank for International Settlements. (2024). Annual economic report No. 147: Embracing diversity, advancing together – results of the 2023 BIS survey
on central bank currencies and crypto. www.bis.org/publ/bppdf/bispap147.pdf
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches 5
This report Globally, digital asset policies and regulations Methodology
promotes a differ to align with the needs of each jurisdiction,
nuanced approach based on variations in goals and risk appetites. Insights have been gathered from our steering
to regulation rather In addition, not all digital assets are created equal, committee and expert working group through:
and their classification profoundly influences
than a ‘one-size-
their use, valuation and regulatory treatment. – Desk research
fits-all’ method, a
This report promotes a nuanced approach to – Workshops
sentiment echoed
regulation rather than a “one-size-fits-all” method, – Interviews
in the diverse
a sentiment echoed in the diverse regulatory
regulatory regimes
regimes explored in the report. Audience
explored in the
report. As the world grapples with the opportunities The report audience includes global policy-makers
and challenges presented in the digital assets and regulators, along with executives of private-
sector, the World Economic Forum’s Centre for sector companies, who all have responsibilities
Financial and Monetary Systems seeks to provide connected to digital assets.
an impartial understanding of the regulatory
landscape through the Digital Assets Regulatory Taxonomy
(DAR) initiative. The Forum has conducted
previous related work on this topic including the Given the diverse actors and roles that comprise
Digital Currency Governance Consortium white the digital assets ecosystem, a general taxonomy
paper series and most recently the Pathways is essential for consistent regulation and can assist
to Crypto-Asset Regulation paper. This earlier with clarity and organization, as well as consistent
work laid the foundation for further exploration benchmarking across various jurisdictions. The
of jurisdiction-specific considerations for shaping lack of a common taxonomy has been mentioned
new policies and regulations. in the digital asset space and was referenced in
the Pathways to Crypto-Asset Regulation report
The DAR initiative engaged more than 80 senior as an important risk. However, there are still many
leaders from the public and private sectors and perspectives and a lack of consensus persists on
academia to examine the current state of digital definitions among ecosystem participants. Bearing
asset regulation around the globe, and to analyse in mind these complexities, the term “digital asset”
outcomes from regulatory implementations to will be used throughout this report as an all-
date in several advanced jurisdictions. This report encompassing category. Within each jurisdictional
synthesizes the findings from these explorations. context, the terminology is used in line with each
respective jurisdiction’s usage.
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches 6
Regulatory approaches,
1
outcomes and unintended
consequences
This section examines nine jurisdictions’
digital asset regulatory approaches, highlighting
important industry issues, initial policy outcomes
and unintended consequences.
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches 7
The jurisdictions To examine lessons learned in the digital assets – AML and KYC: Effective AML and KYC
chosen for regulatory landscape, a comprehensive view of measures are mission-critical to the integrity
examination have current approaches is needed. The jurisdictions of the digital assets ecosystem as they help
regulations at an chosen for examination have regulations at an promote a transparent and safe environment.
advanced stage of development, allowing for the
advanced stage
impacts of their implementation to be observed. – Regulatory and technical sandboxes:
of development,
These are: the European Union, Gibraltar, Hong Sandboxes play a pivotal role by allowing
allowing for the
Kong, Japan, Singapore, Switzerland, the United companies to test products under oversight,
impacts of their
Arab Emirates, the United Kingdom and the United promoting responsible innovation while
implementation
States of America (Figure 2). ensuring compliance with existing and
to be observed. upcoming standards.
For each jurisdiction, there are four subsections:
“general approach”, “approach by topic”, “outcomes” – DeFi: DeFi’s goal of altering the existing
and “unintended consequences”, each designed to paradigm of centralization has significant
explore different elements of the regulatory landscape. implications for how users interact with
technology applications and introduces
“General approach” describes the overarching novel regulatory challenges in the future.
regulatory methodology of a given region. Within
“approach by topic”, the report analyses four of – Privacy and security: Robust measures protect
the industry’s most pressing issues: anti-money consumers’ assets and data from threats and
laundering (AML) and know your customer (KYC); build a secure digital assets landscape and
regulatory and technical sandboxes; decentralized increase consumer trust.
finance (DeFi); and privacy and security. While
evaluating the selected jurisdictions, these topics In the “outcomes” and “unintended consequences”
emerged as the most prominent, with each region segments, the report analyses the results of digital
adopting a unique regulatory approach to address assets policies that have been evident to date, as
them. The additional rationale for their inclusion is well as any unexpected results stemming from the
discussed below: regulatory frameworks in place.
FIGURE 2 Nine jurisdictions assessed
United Kingdom
United States of America
European Union Japan
Switzerland
Gibraltar United Arab Emirates
Hong Kong SAR, China
Singapore
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches 8
1.1 E uropean Union
General approach Approach by topic
The European Union is one of the largest markets Anti-money laundering (AML)
with advanced digital asset regulation. In 2023, the and know your customer (KYC)
EU finalized the comprehensive Markets in Crypto-
Assets (MiCA) regulation, an important piece of In 2021, the EU presented several proposals
the EU’s digital finance strategy, providing legal for strengthening AML protections, including
clarity on privacy, security and transparency for establishing a new entity called the Anti-Money
digital assets, which does not include non-fungible Laundering and Countering the Financing of
tokens (NFTs) and decentralized digital assets.6 Terrorism Authority (AMLA).11 Many of these
MiCA requires all issuers to create a white paper proposals are currently in development and, subject
for assets, subject to approval and licensing, with to discussions, working towards agreements.12,13
non-compliance leading to fines.7 The regulation,
effective from 30 June 2024 for stablecoins and As a member of the Financial Action Task Force
fully effective by the end of 2024, aims to harmonize (FATF), the EU aligns with Travel Rule regulations.14
regulations among member states, replacing The revised Transfer of Funds Regulation (TFR)
existing domestic laws, while the implementation is mandates capturing all transaction information,
delegated to respective jurisdictional authorities for regardless of size, with a threshold of €1,000
enforcement.8 MiCA focuses on investor protection for self-hosted wallets.
and market integrity, primarily addressing crypto-
asset service providers (CASPs) and certain types MiCA requires CASPs to comply with KYC and
of tokens. It also includes rules for stablecoins, AML rules, performing enhanced due diligence
mandating governance and reserve management, for customers from high-risk countries.
and compliance with relevant existing legislation.9 It is important to clarify here that these AML
protections are not crypto-specific, and that
It is important to distinguish between crypto-assets the TFR applies exclusively to service providers,
that fall under MiCA and financial instruments in and therefore explicitly excludes obligations for
digital form that fall under the existing securities providers of hardware and software or providers
regulations (e.g. Markets in Financial Instruments of self-custody wallets that do not have control
Directive [MiFID]). The EU’s Digital Operational over the crypto-assets. As such, AML and KYC
Resilience Act (DORA) and the DLT Pilot Regime remain key elements of the upcoming regulations.
provide the legal framework for trading and
The European
settlement of other digital assets under MiFID II Regulatory and technical sandboxes
Union is one of the
(effective since 2018), facilitating cross-border
largest markets
expansion and mitigating regulatory arbitrage.10 MiCA is generally supportive of regulatory and
with advanced
With these advances, the EU will be the world’s technical sandboxes. In 2023, the EU launched
digital asset largest market with legal and regulatory clarity the European Blockchain Regulatory Sandbox,
regulation. for digital assets. which will run for three years, with cohorts of 20
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches 9
blockchain use cases.15 When it comes to digital the law is binding and directly applicable in all EU
securities, the launch of the DLT Pilot Regime is member states. Proponents argue that it avoids
dedicated to allowing companies to experiment regulatory fragmentation, safeguards consumer
with distributed ledger technology (DLT).16 protections and facilitates cross-border expansion
Portugal, an EU member country, also has a unique for CASPs, which will mitigate regulatory arbitrage.
Technological Free Zone regulatory sandbox for
encouraging the development and experimentation The European Blockchain Regulatory Sandbox
of new technology applications.17,18 has led to mixed opinions. Some stakeholders have
given positive feedback about the ability to run
Decentralized finance (DeFi) innovative experiments, establish best practices
alongside regulators and collaborate with authorities
MiCA explicitly carves out DeFi from the upcoming effectively. However, the sandbox has also been
regulation, as per recital 22: “Where crypto-asset criticized by industry participants for its narrow
services are provided in a fully decentralised scope of permitted use cases, which has resulted
manner without any intermediary, they should in a relatively limited pool of applicants.
not fall within the scope of this Regulation.”19
However, the regulation calls for several studies of European authorities have been able to instil
components of the DeFi ecosystem, decentralized increasing confidence on the topic of KYC and
protocols and applications. AML with the takedown of cryptocurrency mixers
such as ChipMixer and Bitzlato, which enabled
The European Securities and Markets Authority money laundering.23,24
(ESMA) recently published a report, Decentralised
Finance in the EU: Developments and Risks, to inform Other outcomes include the growth of inward
the future of MiCA.20 Additionally, the European investment into the EU by international digital
Commission is expected to prepare a report by asset firms, which are early signs of increased
December 2024 that examines the DeFi market. market development.
Privacy and security
Unintended consequences
MiCA will require identity verification of asset
holders, and mandates that trading platforms
must not allow users to trade assets with full Some aspects of digital assets have been excluded
anonymization. Additionally, the Travel Rule’s from regulation, while others are being seen as overly
identity requirements, to which the EU subscribes, prescriptive. MiCA has been criticized for excluding
will include supervision of financial transactions.21 technology applications such as central bank digital
currencies (CBDCs), utility tokens, DeFi and NFTs,
The EU has also enacted the General Data leading to potential unintended consequences.
Protection Regulation (GDPR), which is seen as
one of the most comprehensive privacy and Other aspects of MiCA can be seen as being too
security laws in the world. Authorities are evaluating strict, such as stablecoin reserve requirements.
how GDPR and MiCA will work together.22 Also, the mandated transparency conflicts with
digital asset anonymity, raising privacy concerns.
Industry players are urging the EU to consider
Outcomes alternative compliance methods that better protect
privacy. Lastly, the Data Act’s provisions for
interrupting or terminating smart contracts have
The intention of the MiCA regulation is for faced backlash from blockchain advocacy groups,
regulation to be harmonized across Europe, as who view these controls as overreaching.
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches 10
1.2 G ibraltar
General approach allowing DeFi projects to test their products
and services in a controlled environment.
Gibraltar has established itself as a prominent Furthermore, the GFSC collaborates closely
centre for blockchain and digital assets. In with industry stakeholders to stay updated on
January 2018, the territory pioneered legislation technological advances and emerging trends in
for DLT, the first jurisdiction to do so worldwide, DeFi, ensuring that regulations remain relevant
emphasizing regulation, reputation and quick and effective.
market implementation. It is widely recognized
for its efforts in advancing blockchain technology Privacy and security
and ensuring sustainability and security within
the industry. The GFSC mandates stringent data protection
and cybersecurity measures for blockchain
To operate in Gibraltar, cryptocurrency companies businesses, ensuring compliance with international
must obtain a licence from the Gibraltar Financial standards such as GDPR. Additionally, the
Services Commission (GFSC) under the Financial Proceeds of Crime Act provides thorough guidelines
Services Act of 2019. The GFSC reviews on security and privacy, facilitating a stable
applications and may grant a licence if certain commercial setting for businesses.29 Moreover, it
criteria are met. Gibraltar has clear regulatory provides clear guidelines on risk management and
frameworks such as the Financial Services the safeguarding of customer assets to prevent
Regulations of 2020, which regulate firms such as data breaches and unauthorized access. This
cryptocurrency exchanges and wallet providers. proactive regulatory stance helps build trust and
creates a secure environment for digital asset
Taxation under the Gibraltar Companies Act of transactions in Gibraltar.30
2014 exempts dividends, capital gains and income
generated from digital asset transactions if they occur
outside Gibraltar.25 This tax framework is attractive Outcomes
for companies and investors focused on blockchain-
related activities, significantly reducing the tax burden
on cross-border digital asset transactions. There has been an influx of companies to Gibraltar’s
digital assets ecosystem on account of its favourable
regulatory environment. The presence of digital asset
Approach by topic firms in the country is expanding, with more entities
establishing operations there.
Anti-money laundering (AML) Additionally, Gibraltar’s regulatory framework has
and know your customer (KYC) attracted international businesses, bolstering
economic growth and positioning the territory
The GFSC sets KYC and AML principles, requiring as a competitive hub for digital assets. Moving
firms to maintain records, monitor systems and forward, the country aims to continue enhancing its
report suspicious activities while allowing adaptation regulatory landscape to sustain growth and attract
to evolving challenges. This regulatory framework more blockchain innovators.
aims to balance effective oversight with the need for
innovation and growth in the financial sector.26
Unintended consequences
Regulatory and technical sandboxes
Gibraltar’s regulatory sandboxes allow companies Gibraltar’s straightforward regulatory compliance
to test new products in a controlled environment, processes have the potential to attract firms seeking
Gibraltar’s ensuring compliance and reducing risks before regulatory arbitrage opportunities. Specifically,the
tax framework market launch. The GFSC oversees these initiatives, ease of acquiring DLT provider licences and lower
is attractive for ensuring that the products are tested within strict operational costs in Gibraltar have significantly
companies and regulatory parameters to safeguard consumer reduced the barriers to entry. This could attract less
interests and maintain market stability.27 desirable market players and intensify regulatory
investors focused
arbitrage practices, as companies look to benefit
on blockchain-
Decentralized finance (DeFi) from Gibraltar’s more accommodating regulatory
related activities,
environment. There has been a lack of harmonization
significantly
Gibraltar’s proactive DeFi regulation by the of Gibraltar’s regulatory practices with other
reducing the tax
GFSC ensures flexibility, transparency, security economies in the region.The possibility of regulatory
burden on cross-
and consumer protection while avoiding overly arbitrage exists in these gaps between jurisdictions
border digital asset prescriptive rules.28 The GFSC’s regulatory and there needs to be a greater focus on cross-
transactions. sandbox plays a significant role in this approach, border cooperation on these regulatory requirements.
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches 11
Addressing these challenges will be key to Gibraltar Gibraltar will wish to strike a balance between
sustaining its reputation as a trustworthy and its appealing regulatory framework and strong
innovative hub for digital assets. In the future, enforcement measures to curb potential abuses.
1.3 Hong Kong SAR, China
General approach plays a pivotal role in setting clear mandates and
guidelines for KYC and AML/CFT regulations
applicable to virtual/digital asset-related activities.32
In Hong Kong, the Financial Services and the For instance, all SFC-licensed corporations and
Treasury Bureau (FSTB) of the Hong Kong SFC-licensed VA trading platforms33 are required
government issued the Policy Statement on to adhere to AML/CFT regulations specifically
Development of Virtual Assets31 in October tailored to virtual/digital assets, ensuring stringent
2022, setting out the vision and policy direction compliance measures are in place.
for the regulation of virtual/digital asset activities
under the “same activity, same risks, same In addition to KYC obligations that address AML/
regulation” principle. CFT risks, an SFC-licensed corporation dealing
in virtual/digital assets or an SFC-licensed VA
In June 2023, the Hong Kong government trading platform is required to, among other
further established the high-level Task Force things, conduct a virtual/digital asset knowledge
on Promoting Web3 Development. Premised assessment for each retail client.
on a balance between appropriate regulation
and promoting development, the task force will The SFC provides comprehensive guidelines on
provide recommendations on the sustainable and other important areas relevant to the operations
responsible development of virtual/digital assets of SFC-licensed VA trading platforms, such as
and Web3 in Hong Kong. safe custody of assets, avoidance of conflicts
of interest, admission of high liquidity and large-
The FSTB and financial regulators, including cap virtual/digital assets for retail trading and
the Hong Kong Monetary Authority (HKMA) and prevention of market-manipulative and abusive
Securities and Futures Commission (SFC), aim activities, as well as accounting and auditing, risk
to establish a facilitating environment that puts in management and cybersecurity requirements.
place timely and necessary guardrails to mitigate These aim to facilitate compliance and ensure
actual and potential risks in accordance with transparency within the virtual/digital asset market,
international standards. and serve as a roadmap for market participants,
helping them navigate regulatory requirements
and maintain compliance standards.34
Approach by topic
For stablecoin issuers, a proposed regulatory
regime will set out AML/CFT requirements and
Anti-money laundering (AML) require issuers to have in place adequate systems
and know your customer (KYC) of control for preventing or combatting possible
money laundering and terrorist financing, including
Under the Anti-Money Laundering and Counter- customer due diligence measures, transaction
Terrorist Financing Ordinance (AMLO) and the monitoring and Travel Rule requirements in
Securities and Futures Ordinance (SFO), the SFC compliance with the standards set by the FATF.
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches 12
In the banking Regulatory and technical sandboxes technologies, ensuring that the virtual/digital
sector, there is assets sector remains resilient to evolving threats.
growing interest The SFC has offered a regulatory sandbox since
in exploring the 2017. The sandbox seeks to provide a confined The guidelines on AML/CTF promulgated by the SFC
DLT that underlies regulatory environment for qualified firms to operate require financial institutions to assess the adequacy
the VA ecosystem regulated activities before fintech is used on a fuller and robustness of data privacy and security controls
scale. VA trading platforms are expected to enter of the VA transfer counterparty in the VA transaction
with a view to
the sandbox upon being licensed.35 as part of the due diligence process. In addition,
incorporating it into
to ensure that clients’ virtual/digital assets are
traditional financial
For the HKMA, among its full suite of sandboxes adequately safeguarded, intermediaries in Hong
market operations.
administered since 2016, a sandbox for stablecoin Kong are required, among other things, to partner
issuers was launched in March 2024 that enables only with SFC-licensed VA trading platforms in
the HKMA to communicate supervisory expectations providing VA dealing services. The SFC and the
and guidance to institutions that plan to issue HKMA have also imposed standards on digital
stablecoins in Hong Kong. It also provides a means asset custody on licensed VA trading platforms38
for the HKMA to obtain feedback from sandbox and banks39 in line with international practices.
participants on proposed regulatory requirements.36
Under the proposed regulatory regime for
Intermediaries may approach the SFC and the stablecoin issuers, licensees will be required
HKMA to discuss their plans on virtual/digital to maintain reserve assets that fully back the
asset-related activities and seek clarification stablecoins in circulation, as well as provide a legal
of regulatory requirements. right for holders to redeem the stablecoins at par at
all times, thus ensuring user protection. In addition,
Decentralized finance (DeFi) issuers will be required to have in place robust
cybersecurity measures to address both existing
Hong Kong’s regulators critically assess cyber risks and emerging risks that are unique
DeFi services or activities to understand the to the blockchain and VA ecosystem.
arrangements and examine the actual substance
of the DeFi arrangements. Specifically, DeFi
activities are scrutinized through the existing Outcomes
regulatory framework and requirements under
the AMLO and the SFO that apply to regulated
financial activities. This balances innovation with Hong Kong is renowned for having developed
regulatory integrity, addressing financial stability a dynamic and adaptable environment for
and protecting investors. virtual/digital assets. This is attributed to the
comprehensive and clear regulatory system in Hong
In the banking sector, there is growing interest in Kong. The licensing regime for VA service providers
exploring the DLT that underlies the VA ecosystem in 2023 is one of the first to not only comply with
with a view to incorporating it into traditional international AML/CTF requirements as stipulated
financial market operations. In light of this, the by the FATF but also provide full regulatory
HKMA provided relevant guidelines in 2024 on the requirements on investor protection, which has been
most important risk-management considerations recognized by the International Monetary Fund.
when banks use DLT-based solutions.37
On investor education, through the publicity
Privacy and security campaigns and educational programmes created
by the SFC, the Investor and Financial Education
Hong Kong’s regulatory approach to virtual/ Council (IFEC) and the HKMA, Hong Kong is
digital assets emphasizes robust privacy and strengthening the knowledge and understanding of
security measures. Overall, personal data virtual/digital assets among investors and heightening
privacy is well safeguarded by the Personal Data awareness of digital asset-related regulatory
(Privacy) Ordinance, which gives statutory effect obligations among industry professionals. With these
to internationally recognized data protection efforts, Hong Kong is reinforcing its intention to work
principles and establishes the Office of the Privacy with and attract well-meaning industry players.40
Commissioner for Personal Data as an independent
statutory authority to monitor data privacy Further, with its sandbox for stablecoin issuers
protection in Hong Kong and take enforcement and efforts on various digital asset-related
actions where necessary. activities, Hong Kong is seeking to develop a
collaborative environment among regulators and
For virtual/digital assets, the HKSAR government industry participants, encouraging the creation of
prioritizes consumer data protection in line products that are both innovative and compliant.
with FATF standards to ensure the responsible This approach enhances the transparency and
growth of Hong Kong’s landscape. The HKSAR robustness of the digital assets ecosystem, which
government also encourages continuous ultimately furthers Hong Kong’s commitment to
improvement and adaptation of cybersecurity regulatory clarity and user protections.
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches 13
Unintended consequences given the nature of the business activities, increased
operational costs could create barriers for new
entrants in the blockchain space.42,43
There have been some unintended consequences
of Hong Kong’s efforts to regulate virtual/digital Licensed VA trading platforms are also not allowed
assets. While the SFC and the HKMA have to make arrangements to use client assets for
implemented regulations for the intermediaries generating returns (e.g. proof-of-stake staking
and exchanges concerned, licensed VA trading activities, a popular method for earning rewards
platforms are currently not allowed to offer digital with digital assets, are excluded). This may pose
asset futures contracts or related derivatives.41 challenges to some industry players and affect
Acknowledging the importance of such products the growth of VA trading platforms. In line with
to institutional investors, the SFC has undertaken international practices, the licensing requirements
to conduct a separate review, while these products as statutorily stipulated are activity-based, not
could currently be offered by other market entity-based. There may be room for additional
participants with the requisite licences. Although clarity as to whether certain companies (e.g. play-
the SFC has indicated that the scale of VA trading to-earn, NFT and utility token businesses) need
platform operations is not expected to be small, to be licensed.
1.4 Japan
General approach through the licensing process and navigating
the complex business landscape in Japan.46
Lastly, Japan has the world’s first international
Japan’s Financial Services Agency (FSA) plays stablecoin passportability regime in which
a pivotal role in shaping policies and enforcing regulatory equivalence for regulated foreign-
regulations, while the Japan Virtual Currency issued stablecoins is supported.
Exchange Association (JVCEA) and the Japan
Security Token Offering Association (JSTOA)
contribute to creating rules and policies tailored Approach by topic
to their respective areas of oversight.
The FSA serves as the primary point of contact Anti-money laundering (AML)
for digital asset regulations, ensuring consistency and know your customer (KYC)
and coherence in regulatory oversight.44 It has
spearheaded amendments to the Payment Japan maintains strict KYC and AML regulations
Services Act (PSA), establishing the legal status for digital asset exchanges and businesses. These
of tokens based on their functions and uses.45 regulations require companies to conduct thorough
Moreover, self-regulatory organizations play an KYC verification of their customers and implement
important role in guiding new industry players AML measures to prevent illicit financial activities.
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches 14
To mitigate risks, Registration under the PSA ensures strict KYC/AML Outcomes
Japan requires adherence and customer asset segregation. Doing
cryptocurrency this reduces the balance-sheet exposure risks to
which customers may be subject when storing their The regulatory approach in Japan has fostered
exchanges
assets on a given platform.47 a healthy and predictable relationship between
to segregate
the public and private sectors, enabling
investors’ assets
Regulatory and technical sandboxes new companies to navigate the compliance
from exchange
requirements effectively. The FSA has led the
assets, reducing
To encourage innovation in the sector, Japan charge, ensuring consistency in and coherence of
loss risks from offers regulatory and technical sandboxes, with a regulatory oversight by amending the PSA based
breaches or special focus on stablecoin-specific sandboxes. on new developments.51
insolvency. Through these environments, stablecoin issuers
have the opportunity to collaborate directly with Registration procedures outlined in the PSA
regulatory authorities and gain insights into ensure the segregation of customer assets from
compliance requirements. company holdings, and ultimately provide greater
transparency and protection for investors.52
By focusing on stablecoins, Japan aims to show its By mandating this separation, Japan enhances
forward-thinking approach to regulatory oversight, consumer protections and instils greater
acknowledging the unique characteristics and confidence in the security of digital assets
potential impact of stablecoins on the financial exchanges. Further, by reacting to past incidents,
landscape. In order to help maintain healthy and implementing robust security measures,
collaboration with the private sector, Japan’s Japan mitigates risks associated with digital asset
sandbox structure is detailed, transparent and custodians and safeguards the interests of its
readily available to market players.48 customers in the space.
Decentralized finance (DeFi)
Unintended consequences
Japan has recognized the transformative potential
of DeFi and remains cautious about its regulatory
implications. Japan mandates that DeFi companies Even with Japan’s forward-thinking approach,
obtain licences from the FSA and comply with unintended consequences have emerged. The
existing financial regulations, ensuring DeFi country’s token listing process, although aimed
platforms adhere to the same standards as at ensuring compliance and investor protection,
traditional financial institutions, mitigating risks. initially faced challenges, with a lengthy pipeline
of listings awaiting approval. However, the FSA
Privacy and security and JVCEA have responded by streamlining
the approval process, balancing AML and CFT
Japan’s approach to privacy and security has been measures with efforts to promote innovation
informed by early lessons from significant security among new companies seeking approval.53
breaches, such as the Mt. Gox and Coincheck
hacks.49 These incidents served as wake-up calls Despite these efforts, regulated entities operating
for regulators and industry participants in Japan. in Japan report significant compliance costs,
leading some companies to exit the Japanese
To mitigate the risks, Japan requires cryptocurrency market.54 Companies have expressed concern
exchanges to segregate investors’ assets from regarding the record-keeping rules and capital
exchange assets, reducing loss risks from breaches requirements, which they perceive as overly
or insolvency. This measure and others like it burdensome. Balancing regulatory oversight with
demonstrate the government’s commitment to the need to promote innovation remains a priority
proactively addressing potential issues of privacy for Japanese regulators as they continue to refine
and security within the digital assets ecosystem.50 their approach to digital assets regulation.
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches 15
1.5 S ingapore
General approach The clear guidance offered by the MAS, combined
with other influencing factors in the jurisdiction such
as low tax rates, established financial infrastructure
In recent years, Singapore has become a digital and high cryptocurrency adoption among the
asset hub in Asia, building on its reputation as a population, has led to the region generally being
leading fintech centre.55 The Monetary Authority of viewed favourably by industry players.58 Globally,
Singapore (MAS) is the primary regulator of digital the MAS is also viewed as a leader in cross-border
assets. Principle legislation includes the Payment cooperation, frequently partnering with other
Services Act 2019 (PS Act) and the Financial nations to advance international conversations
Services and Markets Act 2022.56,57 on digital assets.59
The MAS has issued a proposed regulatory
framework under the PS Act for digital payment token Approach by topic
(DPT) service providers, such as cryptocurrency
exchanges, which implements various operational
requirements and customer protection measures. Anti-money laundering (AML)
Under this proposal, which was amended in April and know your customer (KYC)
2024 and is taking effect in stages, DPT service
providers are required to obtain a licence to offer Singapore has been a member of the Financial
their services in Singapore. Platforms are prohibited Action Task Force (FATF) since 1992 and complies
from offering retail customers margin trading or with FATF recommendations on anti-money
any incentives to trade. As a condition of listing laundering and counter-terrorism financing.60 MAS
a cryptoasset, platforms must disclose potential implemented the Travel Rule through its 2019
conflicts of interest, publish the criteria that govern the Notice on the Prevention of Money Laundering
listing and establish customer dispute procedures. and Countering the Financing of Terrorism.61
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches 16
Due to the The country’s KYC requirements include the be kept in a trust, and not allowing service
regulatory disclosure by both the originator and the beneficiary providers to “facilitate lending and staking of
clarity provided, customer of personally identifiable information (PII) DPTs by their retail customers”.67
for transactions greater than or equal to SGD 1,500
Singapore is
($1,130). Additionally, Singapore’s national digital
viewed as an
identity programme, Singpass, provides digital Outcomes
emerging leader
identity for both citizens and businesses.62
in digital assets
regulation and
The MAS has also consulted on a proposed Due to the regulatory clarity provided, Singapore
has attracted
regulatory approach for stablecoin-related activities, is viewed as an emerging leader in digital assets
companies looking which outlines the AML and CFT requirements for regulation and has attracted companies looking
to expand their stablecoin issuers in Singapore.63 to expand their presence in the country. This is
presence in the particularly apparent on topics including token
country. Regulatory and technical sandboxes issuance procedures, wallet issuer rules and
protocols for exchanges.68 Overall, the rules
The MAS has a fintech regulatory sandbox that, outlined in the PSA and the government’s focus
contingent on approval into the sandbox, enables on consumer awareness have bolstered investor
innovative market players to experiment with confidence in the industry as well as a relatively
their new financial products and services, which transparent business environment in which
could include blockchain-related use cases.64 The companies can operate.69
sandbox’s framework sets boundaries and the
duration of experiments, providing a structured Specifically, the country’s fintech regulatory
pathway for new financial technology applications sandbox provides a predictable regulatory sandbox
to develop and comply with regulatory standards. environment for market players to test their
Once the sandbox period ends, entities must be new products, and its framework around DPTs
compliant with requirements. gives relevant guidance to DeFi market players.
An additional example of Singaporean regulatory
Decentralized finance (DeFi) leadership is the development, co-creation and
promotion of “lighthouse projects” that the MAS
While the MAS has begun experimenting with showcases at the annual Singapore Fintech Festival.
various initiatives and has warned consumers
about the risks of DeFi, regulation on this topic
is still in development given the complexity, Unintended consequences
nature of transactions and protocol governance
considerations. DeFi is regulated under the Securities
and Futures Act and the Payment Services Act, but While Singapore is generally viewed as digital asset-
these do not fully address all DeFi activities. friendly, it does have strict rules in the market.70
Several criticisms by industry players have thus
Privacy and security surfaced. For example, there was opposition to the
proposed MAS consumer protections measures
The MAS released guidance to strengthen that ban lending and staking:71 the Blockchain
consumer protections and deter speculative Association Singapore (BAS) argued that these
investing, recommending that businesses check regulations seemed too extreme and advocated
customers’ knowledge and user risk profiles before reconsideration of the measures, stating that a
offering certain incentives.65 It issued guidelines primary incentive for individuals to hold on to their
that ban cryptocurrency advertisements in public digital assets is the interest they earn and that there
areas and on websites accessible to members of may be an unintended consequence of “pushing
the general public. These measures aim to protect people to seek out unregulated offshore firms to
consumers by minimizing their exposure to high-risk lend their tokens to”.72,73 Proponents of the ban
investment products.66 argue that although regulating digital payment token
service providers might result in fewer of these
MAS has also ordered investor protection measures players operating in the country, it would ultimately
such as mandating that certain customers’ assets reduce risks for consumers in the long run.
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches 17
1.6 S witzerland
General approach Approach by topic
Due to the fact that Swiss legislation is principle- Anti-money laundering (AML)
based and technology-agnostic, most of its and know your customer (KYC)
existing legal provisions may also be applied
to virtual assets. Switzerland does not provide Switzerland demonstrates a proactive stance
for comprehensive, stand-alone virtual assets on KYC and AML regulations, with FINMA and
regulation. Therefore, there are only a very few the Swiss Federal Council leading the way. Their
targeted regulatory instruments specifically progressive approach is evidenced by specific
designed for virtual assets that mainly focus the amendments to the Anti-Money Laundering
transfer of such assets from a civil law perspective. Ordinance (AMLO) and supplemental guidelines
Furthermore, Swiss legislators introduced a specific issued by FINMA as to the scope of the AML Act.
framework for a DLT trading facility. Other than that,
the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority Switzerland’s AML legislation provides clarity and
(FINMA) issued guidance on how to handle virtual guidance on AML requirements for entities operating
assets within the given legal framework in practice; in the digital assets space. These regulations
for example, with regard to the scope of the Banking mandate robust KYC procedures to verify the
Act or the AML Act. Important frameworks include identities of customers and ensure compliance with
the Financial Services Act (FinSA), the Financial AML standards. There have been several advances
Institutions Act (FinIA), the Anti-Money Laundering in AML legislation and in May 2024, the Federal
Act (AMLA), the Financial Market Infrastructure Act Council adopted a dispatch on strengthening the
(FMIA) and guidelines for initial coin offerings (ICOs), anti-money laundering framework.78
facilitating investment and industry growth.74,75
Regulatory and technical sandboxes
The clarity and predictability of Switzerland’s
regulatory framework has attracted investors and Switzerland’s approach to promoting innovation
digital asset companies seeking a stable jurisdiction in the digital assets sector is highlighted by
for their operations.76 The country’s favourable tax FINMA’s regulatory and technical sandboxes.
laws have further bolstered its attractiveness, leading These offer a controlled environment in which
prominent companies such as blockchain labs and start-ups and established companies exploring
foundations to establish their headquarters there. blockchain-based offerings can test products
More than 1,000 blockchain businesses have chosen and services while engaging with regulators to
Switzerland as their base, reflecting the country’s ensure compliance, mitigating risks and ensuring
status as a leading hub for blockchain innovation.77 consumer protection.
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches 18
Switzerland Decentralized finance (DeFi) solutions within a supportive regulatory environment.
adopts a Through these regulatory and technical sandboxes,
technology- Switzerland adopts a technology-neutral stance on Switzerland is actively promoting collaboration
decentralized finance (DeFi), prioritizing compliance between industry stakeholders and regulators,
neutral stance
and regulatory clarity. FINMA oversees DeFi driving the development of cutting-edge technology
on decentralized
projects under the same regulatory frameworks applications while safeguarding investor interests
finance (DeFi),
as other financial institutions, focusing on and financial stability. This approach has positioned
prioritizing
transparency, security and AML. DeFi platforms Switzerland as a leading hub for digital assets
compliance and
must adhere to the FMIA and FinSA for market innovation globally, attracting entrepreneurs and
regulatory clarity.
integrity and consumer protection. businesses seeking a conducive environment for
technological advancement.
Privacy and security
Switzerland’s regulatory landscape emphasizes Unintended consequences
privacy and security, enforced through the Swiss
Data Protection Act (DPA) and aligned with
GDPR. Companies are encouraged to adopt While Switzerland’s regulatory approach to digital
cryptographic techniques and secure protocols to assets has been lauded for its innovation-friendly
protect data integrity and privacy, ensuring secure environment, it has also faced challenges, such
transactions. This includes using secure smart as crypto-related crimes. A new regulatory
contracts and decentralized networks to minimize environment may inadvertently attract bad actors
the risk of data tampering and fraud. that could facilitate scams and illicit activities,
damaging the country’s ecosystem.79
Outcomes Like other countries at the forefront of crypto
regulation, Switzerland runs the risk of failing to
ensure regulatory reciprocity between Swiss-
Switzerland’s proactive approach, guided by based operators and their EU counterparts.
bodies such as FINMA and the Swiss Federal Cooperation and regulatory development with
Council, underscores the country’s commitment other jurisdictions should be the focus of
to maintaining a secure and transparent financial attention as development continues.
ecosystem. By applying existing legal provisions to
virtual assets, consumer and investor confidence Exploring these challenges can support
have increased, ultimately supporting the market Switzerland’s role as a key player in cryptocurrency
integrity of its digital assets ecosystem. innovation, developing an environment that is
inclusive and accessible to all participants. As a
Regarding sandboxes, by providing a structured result, regulatory efforts are needed to navigate
environment for experimentation, FINMA enables the complexities associated with these activities
companies to explore innovative blockchain in the future.
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches 19
1.7 U nited Arab Emirates
General approach to promote responsible and sustainable growth
of the digital assets ecosystem. It addresses
a number of regulatory concerns, which has
The UAE promotes a business-friendly climate for provided clarity for new and existing market
digital assets.80 The central bank does not license players and defines virtual assets clearly.85 In
cryptocurrencies and they cannot be used as legal March 2024, the DIFC announced the enactment
tender; however, they can be owned and traded.81,82 of its Digital Assets Law.86 Alongside this, its new
Law of Security and amendments to existing
In Dubai, the Dubai Financial Services Authority legislation are designed to provide clarity to
(DFSA) serves as a long-standing regulator for the investors and help ensure the zone keeps up
Dubai International Financial Centre (DIFC) and with technological developments.
has created a new regulator, the Virtual Assets
Regulatory Authority (VARA).83 In 2022, UAE’s In Abu Dhabi, it is worth noting that the Abu
Law No. (4), Regulating Virtual Assets in the Dhabi Global Market (ADGM) was among the
Emirate of Dubai, established VARA with the aim first regulators in the world to require authorized
of positioning the country as a pioneering force exchanges to pre-clear any tokens they wished
in the digital assets arena.84 The ultimate goal of to list with the regulator first prior to making the
VARA is to balance growth with security in order tokens available to the public.
Approach by topic maintain effective AML and CFT protocols relevant
to their virtual asset activities.88 For international
players, the DFSA provides AML/CFT guidance.
Anti-money laundering (AML)
and know your customer (KYC) Regulatory and technical sandboxes
The main driver of AML compliance in the UAE The UAE has established regulatory and technical
remains the central bank, which in conjunction with sandboxes for market players, which aim to provide
other relevant regulators has issued common UAE- clear insights for companies that plan to launch
wide guidance on AML.87 products in the jurisdiction. In conjunction with its
sandbox environments, the UAE also promotes
VARA emphasizes the importance of KYC active dialogue between public and private sectors
and AML protocols for market players in its in the space.89
jurisdiction. It does this by mandating licences
for any company that is an intermediary between Decentralized finance (DeFi)
digital assets and fiat, offers borrowing or lending
services and facilitates the transfer of virtual As part of its strategy to become a prominent
assets, among other activities. Further, VARA regional hub, the UAE has fostered a cooperative
requires virtual assets service providers (VASPs) to atmosphere that supports a broad spectrum of
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches 20
decentralized finance applications with the aim of The sandbox environment in the UAE has helped
attracting DeFi companies to not only do business position the country as a favourable landscape for
in the country but also be headquartered there.90 companies building a variety of products including
wallets, decentralized autonomous organizations
Privacy and security (DAOs), utility tokens, NFTs and decentralized
applications (dApps).95
The UAE has implemented stringent customer
and data protection measures for VASPs. VARA
requires secure storage and transmission practices Unintended consequences
to protect customer data and prevent breaches and
unauthorized access.91 VASPs are able to ensure
that they are complying with security and privacy Although VARA has established itself as a leading
measures through the country’s robust sandbox authority in the country, regulatory fragmentation
environment ahead of product launches.92 across the UAE’s seven emirates has created
complexities and compliance challenges for
businesses as well as differences in treatment
Outcomes between onshore and offshore players. This
fragmentation can lead to inconsistencies in
the application and enforcement of regulations,
The UAE’s approach to digital assets regulation has making it difficult for companies to maintain
resulted in positive outcomes for both consumers and uniform compliance standards. As a result,
businesses, creating a healthy business environment businesses could face increased operational
that encourages investment and innovation.93 This costs and legal uncertainties.
has led to a number of industry leaders expanding
their operations into the jurisdiction in recent years.94
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches 21
1.8 U nited Kingdom
General approach Approach by topic
The digital assets regulatory framework under Anti-money laundering (AML)
development in the United Kingdom primarily and know your customer (KYC)
focuses on creating stable market conditions,
enhancing investor protections and providing an The financial promotion rules for cryptoassets offer
environment that fosters innovation. The regulation detailed guidelines for businesses wishing to offer
distinguishes between digital securities and financial promotions, while managing a customer’s
unbacked cryptoassets and stablecoins, which journey – which includes performing relevant KYC
is where most of the new regulation is coming and AML checks.101,102 The intended goal of such
into effect. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) new licensing requirements is to provide a safe
regulates digital assets under broader financial and predictable environment in which companies
services legislation.96 Notably, the Financial can operate.
Services and Markets Act of 2023 provides
extensive guidance on financial matters, including Regulatory and technical sandboxes
the treatment of digital asset settlements.
In order to promote a conducive environment
The UK is currently considering further regulatory for innovation, the UK has established regulatory
action in order to protect consumers and support sandboxes, allowing industry participants to test
innovation in its jurisdiction.97 In October 2023, the and develop new products. The UK’s permanent
UK’s Law Commission suggested the establishment Digital Sandbox and Digital Securities Sandbox
of a distinct property category for digital assets, aim to provide a controlled environment for testing
proposed a technical oversight group and supported digital asset products.103,104
the applicability of existing common law to digital
asset issues.98 The government is currently evaluating The Digital Securities Sandbox is specifically
UK regulation these recommendations. Most recently, His Majesty’s designed to ensure the responsible development of
distinguishes Treasury (HMT) issued a consultation response to new technology products, such as DLT. It enables
between digital the future financial services regulatory regime for market players to work directly with members of
cryptoassets. This response provides an overview the FCA and the Bank of England to make the
securities and
of the government’s position on trading venues, necessary adjustments to their products in essential
unbacked
custody, staking and other important issues.99 topic areas such customer protections.105
cryptoassets and
stablecoins, which
For the regulation of fiat-backed stablecoins, the Decentralized finance (DeFi)
is where most of
UK strives to provide predictability for market
the new regulation
participants by incorporating them into existing Aiming to be a leading regulated jurisdiction,
is coming into legislation, as outlined in Discussion Paper 23/4 on HMT is focused on regulating DeFi through its
effect. Regulating Cryptoassets Phase 1: Stablecoins.100 Future Financial Services Regulatory Regime for
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches 22
Cryptoassets response, which emphasizes its aim As businesses have adapted their procedures
of maintaining a balanced approach to challenges to meet these standards, the digital assets
in DeFi regulation.106 market has become more resilient in the UK.
The alignment of major companies with these
The government is currently working through a set comprehensive regulatory standards has promoted
of consultation requests with industry players before a safer investment climate, potentially driving
bringing forth any prescriptive frameworks. As part of further institutional investment and supporting
its focus on DeFi, the UK aims to prioritize eliminating sustainable growth in the digital assets ecosystem
regulatory arbitrage as a focus area in the future. within the country.
Privacy and security The UK’s forward-thinking approach to DeFi has
attracted more companies.109 The FCA is exploring
Collaboration between the FCA and the UK’s a regulatory sandbox specifically for DeFi projects to
Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) is aimed promote innovation while ensuring compliance. The
at building a transparent set of norms for digital Treasury aims to deliver similar regulatory outcomes
asset custodians, particularly concerning staking across centralized crypto services and DeFi
and lending, emphasizing risk identification and equivalents to mitigate regulatory arbitrage risks.110
consumer protection.107
The FCA has laid out strict rules on cryptocurrency Unintended consequences
advertisements, emphasizing the need for clarity
to protect consumers from misleading claims.
Regulations require crypto-related ads to be fair, The UK faces challenges in making decisions in the
not to be misleading and to be accompanied by digital assets space because of the multiple agencies
the appropriate set of risk warnings.108 that are attempting to create regulations, including
HMT, FCA, PRA and the Bank of England. The
additional licence requirements resulting from the
Outcomes Financial Services Markets Act were met with varied
reactions from industry players. This has the potential
to deter start-ups and newcomers from entering a
The financial promotion rules for cryptoassets market that requires greater capital commitments
help companies to expand their operations in the upfront. Some overly stringent regulations may even
country due to the regulatory transparency on AML cause companies to withdraw.111
and KYC measures. They enhance consumer trust
and have played a role in attracting large firms to
operate in the jurisdiction.
1.9 U nited States of America
General approach addition, the McHenry Payment Stablecoin Act has
passed the US House of Representatives. On the
latter, the House of Representatives passed the
The United States has a fragmented approach to Financial Innovation and Technology for the 21st
digital assets regulation, with a host of different Century Act (FIT 21), which provides a regulatory
regulatory agencies involved such as the Securities framework for the operation of digital assets
and Exchange Commission (SEC), the Commodities markets.112 The bill is poised to advance to the
Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), the Federal Senate for further consideration.
Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and the
Department of the Treasury, among others. Additionally, both the House of Representatives
and Senate passed House Joint Resolution
Various pieces of federal legislation have been 109 in the hope of overturning the SEC’s Staff
proposed over the past few years, all of which Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 121, which
aim to establish jurisdictional boundaries and mandates that custodians holding digital assets
provide clarity to regulatory bodies as to how on behalf of customers recognize a liability on
digital assets should be regulated. Recent their balance sheets, potentially raising the level of
examples have focused on two main aspects of capital required from banks that decide to custody
digital assets: stablecoins and market structure. digital assets.113,114 This marked the first time that
Related to stablecoins, the Lummis-Gillibrand both chambers of the US legislature passed digital
Payment Stablecoin Act in the US Senate aims asset-relevant legislation. President Joe Biden
to establish a thorough set of regulations for the vetoed the resolution, citing potential risks to
issuance of stablecoins and the management of consumer and investor protections, keeping
the associated reserves and market structure; in SAB-121 in effect.
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches 23
Although some of the federal regulation has not yet sandbox in 2018, allowing fintech companies to
been implemented, the US approach has benefitted test innovative products with reduced regulatory
in some cases from a federated model in which burdens.118 Wyoming, known for its crypto-friendly
major financial centres such as New York can stance, has also developed a progressive sandbox
advance the digital assets environment. to encourage blockchain innovation.119
On a federal level, the Consumer Financial
Approach by topic Protection Bureau (CFPB) introduced a digital
sandbox to encourage innovation in financial
products and services. The sandbox allowed
Anti-money laundering (AML) entities to experiment with compliance solutions
and know your customer (KYC) under the supervision of the CFPB, ensuring that
consumer protections were maintained during the
AML and KYC policies in the United States testing phase.120 However, to date there has not
include several key regulations. The Financial been widespread use of the CFPB’s sandbox.
Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) within the
Department of the Treasury mandates that digital Decentralized finance (DeFi)
asset exchanges and administrators must register as
money service businesses (MSBs) and comply with The United States has approached DeFi regulation
AML requirements, including implementing thorough in several ways, focusing on transparency,
KYC procedures to verify customer identities.115 consumer protection and market integrity. FATF
guidance, adopted by the country, recommends
The United States also adheres to the FATF that DeFi protocols adhere to AML and KYC
Recommendations, which set international standards. Also, the SEC and the CFTC attempted
standards on AML and KYC for VASPs, ensuring to apply existing securities and commodities
that VASPs implement adequate KYC procedures laws to DeFi platforms, requiring registration and
and comply with the Travel Rule.116 compliance with financial regulations and filing
enforcement actions in the absence of guidance.
Regulatory and technical sandboxes
A key component of FIT21 is the way that it
Several states have regulatory sandbox promotes innovation in a host of industries by
programmes that can benefit blockchain initiatives, creating a pathway to compliance for decentralized
including Arizona, Florida, Hawaii, Nevada, North networks. For example, FIT21 provides a route
Carolina, Utah, West Virginia and Wyoming.117 for the digital assets of computational networks
Arizona and Wyoming in particular have made and even social networks to receive appropriate
progress. Arizona established a regulatory and safe regulatory treatment that matches the
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches 24
technology; this would address important open The US is an important digital assets market
questions of DeFi regulation while ensuring that and the country’s laissez-faire approach has
innovation can thrive across industries. promulgated the advent of tokenized money market
funds and dollar dominance of the stablecoin
Privacy and security segment. In addition, while some in crypto perceive
the US to be too heavy-handed when it comes to
The United States takes a multifaceted approach to combatting illicit finance, others believe that the
privacy and security policies. The SEC, FinCEN and tougher approach has ultimately been a positive
CFTC enforce strict guidelines to ensure compliance for the industry. The US has also been a leader in
and protect users’ data. The SEC mandates that enabling industry participation and dialogue.
blockchain and crypto companies adhere to the
same privacy and security standards as traditional
financial institutions, requiring comprehensive Unintended consequences
protections to prevent data breaches and ensure
the confidentiality of user information.121
In 2022, devastating consumer losses and multiple
Additionally, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) bankruptcies highlighted weaknesses in the
enforces consumer protection laws that apply to industry, underscoring the urgent need for a more
digital assets, ensuring that companies maintain comprehensive regulatory framework.124 Total
transparent privacy policies and secure user data cryptoasset-related fundraising grew sixfold, from
against unauthorized access.122 approximately $3 billion in 2020 to $22.63 billion for
2023. However, the share of such fundraising deals
that take place in the United States has fallen every
Outcomes year. Numerous reports attribute this decline to
ongoing regulatory uncertainty in the US relative to
other jurisdictions.125
Due to a lack of federal-level regulatory guidance,
states have taken the lead on building and In the absence of regulatory clarity, companies
Due to a implementing the appropriate policies, which have pointed to an unworkable “regulation by
lack of federal- has helped companies navigate growth in these enforcement” approach, which industry players
level regulatory regions. States such as Wyoming have also passed argue inhibits their ability to grow predictably in
guidance, states progressive legislation recognizing decentralized the country. This is despite digital asset companies
autonomous organizations (DAOs) as legal entities, actively petitioning for more concrete rules and
have taken the
further bolstering innovation and investment in the regulations and increased clarity.126,127 Industry
lead on building
digital assets sector. In addition, Wyoming has voices highlight a lack of clarity regarding which
and implementing
passed a series of blockchain-friendly laws, such regulatory bodies have jurisdiction in certain
the appropriate
as recognizing the legal status of digital assets circumstances, causing several market leaders to
policies, which has
and creating a new type of bank, special purpose expand their presence overseas.128 Such industry
helped companies
depository institutions (SPDIs), specifically for voices view greater coordination among regulatory
navigate growth handling digital assets. This legal clarity has attracted entities as a necessity for improving regulation
in these regions. several blockchain businesses to certain states.123 in the US.
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches 25
Recommendations
2
Jurisdictional analyses revealed insights that
can be beneficial for policy-makers, regulators
and private-sector leaders as they aim to shape
effective digital asset environments.
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches 26
In conducting the jurisdictional analysis, certain data points, public-sector leaders can build and
recommendations surfaced for policy-makers, implement policies that have the greatest chance
regulators and private-sector leaders working to of achieving their intended objectives, as well
shape digital asset environments that meet their as avoiding familiar pitfalls.
goals. Particular topics and suggestions arose
regularly in conversations with public- and The recommendations below result from
private-sector stakeholders. jurisdictional analysis to date, and directly address
the four aforementioned key topics: anti-money
Since these recommendations are influenced by laundering (AML) and know your customer (KYC);
several jurisdictions, they can provide guidance on a regulatory and technical sandboxes; decentralized
jurisdictionally agnostic basis. By relying on existing finance (DeFi); and privacy and security.
2.1 A nti-money laundering (AML) and know
your customer (KYC) recommendations
For digital Technology-enhanced solutions international make-up of industry players and the
asset regulation nature of borderless blockchains, public-sector
in particular, given leaders globally must strengthen international
the increasingly Policy-makers and regulators as well as private- cooperation in this topic area. In order to facilitate
sector stakeholders should explore the adoption of cooperation, there must be open dialogue between
international
technology-enhanced solutions to meet AML and regulators and the digital assets industry to share
make-up of
KYC requirements in the jurisdictions. Technology- best practices and challenges in AML and KYC
industry players
enhanced solutions can help jurisdictions achieve compliance. Additionally, collaborative efforts
and the nature
their specific goals in relation to preserving must not only be between industry players and
of borderless
consumer data rights and ecosystem security. the public sector domestically, but also include
blockchains, international collaboration. This will enable
public-sector To simplify implementation and reduce costs, comprehensive AML and KYC oversight globally
leaders globally technology solutions for KYC processes that are and significantly enhance the regulatory landscape
must strengthen employed for other financial use cases should be for all parties. There is a crucial role for standard-
international considered. This can include the use of digital identity setters as the development of global standards is
cooperation in verification methods and blockchain technology to a key pillar for enhancing certainty and consistency
streamline processes while enhancing accuracy of regulatory approaches.
AML and KYC.
and security. For example, the use of privacy-
preserving KYC solutions that leverage cryptographic
techniques such as zero-knowledge proofs to Training and compliance
validate user identities without exposing personal
programmes
data has proven useful for enhancing AML and
KYC goals. Additionally, artificial intelligence (AI) and
advanced analytics platforms have been effective AML and KYC policies that have proven effective
in monitoring and detecting suspicious activities. often emphasize thorough training and compliance
Specifically, real-time analytics platforms that uncover programmes. These policies call for ongoing
anomalies and identify illicit activities have proven education on the importance of AML and KYC,
effective in serving as a deterrent for bad actors. emerging financial crime trends and the tactical use
of new tools to remain compliant.
Global cooperation Additionally, effective regulations in this arena
frequently mandate that digital asset service providers
regularly update and train their staff on AML and
To date, jurisdictions have generally taken a KYC regulations.129 This ensures that their technology
fragmented approach to cross-border AML application stacks and employee knowledge remain
and KYC policy creation and implementation up-to-date with evolving financial crime methods,
for existing financial use cases. For digital asset ultimately enhancing overall compliance and security
regulation in particular, given the increasingly in the digital assets ecosystem.
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches 27
2.2 R egulatory and technical sandbox
recommendations
Clear sandbox objectives innovators can share insights, challenges and
feedback. They should also improve transparency
and support mechanisms
and feedback mechanisms within the sandboxes to
ensure that start-ups receive timely and constructive
In various jurisdictions, the sandboxes that responses, facilitating better development and
achieve their intended objectives are designed regulatory compliance.
with specific goals and criteria for participation.
This helps ensure that sandbox initiatives are In addition, government leaders should encourage
focused, are driven by clear objectives and cross-border collaboration on sandbox initiatives
offer high value for public- and private-sector to harmonize regulatory approaches and share
participants. Having a timeline or specific steps lessons learned. International cooperation can help
to receive regulatory approval can provide address the cross-jurisdictional nature of digital
structure and clear milestones. However, assets and ensure consistent regulatory standards.
timebound sandboxes might not be suitable for
all companies, as some products require more
time than others to achieve their objectives. Diverse and broad networks
A flexible approach is necessary to accommodate
these variations and ensure that the sandbox
can adapt to different needs. Throughout the jurisdictions analysed,
sandboxes often have mechanisms for sharing
In addition, support mechanisms such as providing insights and feedback, leading to practical
hands-on regulatory guidance for participants policy and regulatory outcomes. Cross-border
can also help innovators navigate the regulatory collaboration on sandbox initiatives can also
landscape while testing new products and services harmonize regulatory approaches and ensure
in a controlled environment. consistent standards.
Insights gained from sandbox experiments should To maximize the benefits of sandboxes,
inform and adjust regulatory frameworks, ensuring policy-makers and regulators should prioritize
Regulators that they remain relevant and conducive to innovation. creating enabling environments for a diverse pool
need to consider It is also crucial that sandboxes include a clear path of candidates. By including diverse participants,
carefully how to implementation once the sandbox concludes. this helps ensure a wide range of products
sandboxes will Regulators need to consider carefully how sandboxes and challenges are explored.
provide a route will provide a route to long-term sustainability for the
businesses that participate in them; otherwise, they Establishing international networks for cross-
to long-term
risk deterring innovative actors from participating. border testing enhances learning and facilitates
sustainability for
knowledge transfer, while improving transparency
the businesses
and feedback mechanisms ensures timely
that participate in
Collaborative ecosystems responses for start-ups, aiding in regulatory
them; otherwise,
compliance. Moreover, specialized sandboxes
they risk deterring
for technology applications are essential
innovative actors Effective sandboxes foster collaborative to regulate uncharted activities and prevent
from participating. environments in which public-sector officials and market fragmentation.
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches 28
2.3 D ecentralized finance (DeFi) recommendations
Sandbox-first approach participating in DeFi protocols, the potential
for loss when interacting with these types of
products and the nascent nature of many
Jurisdictions that show signs of progress in players in this ecosystem.
addressing the rapidly evolving DeFi ecosystem
are those that address its complexity through Developing a clear, effective regulatory framework
a nimble, sandbox-first approach. The success for DeFi is critical. Implementing licensing models
of regulatory sandboxes highlights the potential that account for the decentralized nature of DeFi
for collaborative innovation in DeFi. Regulatory has enabled progress. These models should
sandboxes provide a controlled environment in increasingly consider the unique characteristics
which developers can experiment with digital of DeFi’s underlying technology applications and
assets and decentralized protocols. prioritize regulating the services that sit on top of
these protocols rather than the infrastructure itself.
This approach facilitates the development of This approach, which focuses on the governance
guidelines and regulations that are both practical structures and DeFi operational models, helps
and forward-looking for industry players who aim ensure transparency and accountability within
to innovate in the space. Sandboxes ultimately help DeFi platforms, mitigating risks and ultimately
ensure that regulatory measures keep pace with protecting consumers.
technological advances in DeFi, creating a dynamic
and compliant ecosystem.
Parameter definitions
Risk mitigation
Where policies have achieved their aims, policy-
makers have worked with industry players to
Policy-makers and regulators that have create definitions for DeFi activities and establish an
demonstrated advances in DeFi regulation appropriate regulatory framework. It is important to
have begun to work directly and alongside DeFi ensure that different definitions of “decentralization”
platforms to ensure appropriate disclosure of are accounted for, as there are various interpretations
risks to users. DeFi applications include a wide based on the activity levels of DeFi players.
array of use cases, some of which provide access
to social media protocols, while others facilitate In general, legacy financial regulation was written
access to decentralized identify-management with an issuer or entity-centric framework. While
systems. These applications pose different risks this made sense for cases in which there was an
depending on their use case. Policy for DeFi identifiable business with a centralized management
should be calibrated to the risks posed by specific team, for decentralized digital assets, such
DeFi application. This may include consistent entity-centric frameworks do not align with the
and clear communication about the risks of using technology. Policy-makers and regulators should
specific DeFi applications and protocols and the therefore explore the possibility of achieving the
potential for loss when interacting with applications crucial aims of protecting consumers, maintaining
that take custody of user funds or involve some market integrity and promoting innovation by
form of financial consideration. Consistent and calibrating requirements and parameter definitions
clear communication is needed about the risks of for decentralized networks.
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches 29
2.4 P rivacy and security policy recommendations
Consumer-focused Further, having a centralized authority within
a jurisdiction can simplify operations for
companies implementing privacy and security
Effective security and privacy-related policies technology applications. In line with this, there
generally embody a consumer-centric approach. should be international cooperation to align
Since individual consumers may take on risk policies in different jurisdictions. The presence
when engaging in the space, end users should be of a dedicated regulatory body can lead to more
considered the key stakeholder group requiring proactive updates to security and privacy
protecting through policies. policies, addressing emerging threats and
technological advances promptly. This may
Effective policies implement education campaigns apply not just to security and privacy policies
to raise awareness about the importance of but potentially also to digital assets policy
security practices in the digital asset space. These development as a whole because it can provide
initiatives might include workshops, online courses, consistency and transparency.
communication with the public to increase awareness
and partnerships with academic institutions to ensure
that retail consumers can access crucial information. Technology-enabled
By developing a culture of security awareness, such
policies help build a more resilient and informed user
base, ultimately reducing the risk of security breaches Forward-looking policies often use enhanced
and fraud in the digital asset space. analytic tools that can provide policy-makers
with data when monitoring and enforcing rules
Encouraging (e.g. real-time risk alerts). It is important to require
the use of privacy- Clear and consolidated digital asset companies to undergo regular
preserving security audits and compliance checks to
technology mitigate potential risks appropriately.
A common feature of successful security
applications
and privacy policies is the establishment of a Encouraging the use of privacy-preserving
that protect user
central authority within a jurisdiction to oversee technology applications that protect user
identities as well
digital asset regulations, which can help clarify identities as well as their financial information
as their financial
guidelines and minimize the potential for regulatory helps build comprehensive and resilient policy.
information
arbitrage. While not a requirement for success, Moreover, technology alone cannot preserve
helps build
having one authoritative body means that security privacy; proper data management is crucial,
comprehensive protocols and standards can be uniformly applied particularly in deciding what information should
and resilient policy. in digital asset platforms. be recorded on blockchains.
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches 30
Conclusion
There is a need for comprehensive,
adaptable regulations that meet the differing
needs of individual jurisdictions and for
ongoing public–private dialogue to ensure
effective and future-ready frameworks.
The increasing complexity of the digital assets sandboxes; decentralized finance (DeFi);
regulatory landscape underscores the importance and privacy and security.
of comprehensive regulation in the years to come.
Policy-makers and regulators face a demanding Finally, the ongoing dialogue between public-
road ahead as they attempt to devise adaptable sector authorities and private-sector participants
strategies, prepare for upcoming industry challenges ensures that regulations are not only responsive
and maintain a transparent regulatory environment. to current demands but also adaptable to future
By analysing the regulatory landscape across nine developments. A well-defined and flexible regulatory
jurisdictions in which progress has been made, framework, informed by diverse experiences, is
this report uncovers valuable lessons and provides paramount because it provides the clarity necessary
public-sector leaders with important insights as they for the industry. By engaging with a variety of
build and implement new rules. stakeholders, policy-makers and regulators can
better navigate the complexities inherent in this fast-
In this critical period for digital asset regulation, it paced industry. The thoughtful integration of global
is also important for public-sector leaders to focus insights and company-specific data into regulatory
on select key topic areas. Four of the industry’s practices can enhance the agility of regulatory
most pressing issues as discussed in the report frameworks in the future. This proactive stance not
are anti-money laundering (AML) and know only prepares the market for immediate shifts but
your customer (KYC); regulatory and technical also sets a strong foundation for the future.
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches 31
Contributors
Authors World Economic Forum
Shawn Dej Matthew Blake
Lead, Blockchain and Digital Assets, Head, Centre for Financial and Monetary Systems,
World Economic Forum World Economic Forum
Sandra Waliczek Drew Propson
Lead, Blockchain and Digital Assets, Head, Technology and Innovation in Financial
World Economic Forum Services, World Economic Forum
The World Economic Forum wishes to extend
special thanks to Sarah Hubbard for her research
efforts and related contributions to this report.
Acknowledgements
Steering Committee Working Group and Reviewers
Jeremy Allaire Charles Adkins
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, President, Hedera Council, Hedera Hashgraph
Circle Internet Financial
Olaiya Ajadi
Rodolphe Baroukh Head of Government Relations and Regulatory
Deputy Head of Savings and Financial Markets, Strategy, UK, Middle East and Africa, London Stock
French Treasury Exchange Group
Armel Castets Moritz Baier-Lentz
Deputy Director of International Corporate Finance Partner, Head of Gaming and Interactive Media,
and Foreign Trade, French Treasury Lightspeed Venture Partners
Denelle Dixon Justin Banon
Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director, Co-Founder, Boson Protocol
Stellar Development Foundation
Anna Baranowska
Brad Garlinghouse Executive Director, Compliance Products
Chief Executive Officer, Ripple and Services, Julius Baer
Badr Salim A. Al Olama Chloe Barz
Adviser to His Excellency the Chairman, Abu Dhabi Director, International Government and External
Department of Economic Development, Abu Dhabi Affairs, Robinhood Markets
Investment Office
Lauren Belive
Michael Sonnenshein Head, Public Policy and Government, Ripple
Chief Executive Officer, Grayscale Investments
(June 2023–May 2024) Nuntapun Bhensook
Assistant Director, Digital Currency Policy and
Itay Tuchman Development Unit, Bank of Thailand
Chief Executive Officer, Consello Digital (August–
November 2023) Lee Brenner
Head of Public Policy for Digital Assets, Goldman
Sachs
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches 32
Tara Burchmore Sarah Hubbard
Economic Policy Fellow, Office of Senator Gillibrand, Senior Fellow, Ash Center for Democratic
US Senate Governance and Innovation, Harvard University
Paul Chan Mo-Po Jae Jang
Financial Secretary of the Government of the Hong Senior Policy Advisor to Congressman French Hill,
Kong Special Administrative Region US House of Representatives
Dominique Chaubon Wookyung Jung
Deputy Head of the French Treasury Office Policy Analyst, Tech and Innovation, International
in New York, Embassy of France Criminal Police Organization (INTERPOL)
Lesley Chavkin Candace Kelly
Head of Policy, Stellar Development Foundation Chief Legal Officer, Stellar Development Foundation
(October 2022–February 2024)
Peter Kerstens
Ezechiel Copic Adviser, Financial Sector Digitalization
Director, Digital Currency Policy, Visa
and Cybersecurity, European Commission
Dante Disparte
Devina Khanna
Chief Strategy Officer and Head, Global Policy,
Economic Policy Adviser,
Circle Internet Financial
US House of Representatives
Sam Dreiman
Amy Kim
Policy and Government Relations, Ripple
Policy Lead, Blockchain, Crypto and Digital
Currencies, PayPal
Maria José Escribano
Banking and Finance Lawyer, BBVA
Klaus Lober
Chair of the Central Counterparties (CCP)
Ziyang Fan
Supervisory Committee, European Securities
Head, International Government Relations Policy,
and Markets Authority
PayPal
Ross MacKay
Richard Fenner
Chief Operating Officer, CasperLabs
Director, Government Relations, Euroclear
Mrinal Manohar
Hervé François
Chief Executive Officer and Co-Founder,
Partner, Blockchain/Digital Assets fund, Investcorp
CasperLabs
Holdings (April 2023–May 2024)
Timothy Massad
Dan Gallagher
Senior Fellow, Director, Harvard Kennedy School
Chief Legal Compliance and Corporate Affairs
Digital Assets Policy Project, Harvard University
Officer, Robinhood Markets
Congressman Patrick McHenry
Cédric Garcin
Chairman, House Financial Services Committee,
Head of French Department of Treasury and
US House of Representatives
Economic Affairs in New York, Embassy of France
Carlota Giralt Castellano John Nahas
Digital Regulation, BBVA Vice-President of Business Development,
Avalanche
Robert Grant
Vice-President, Global Head of Public Policy, Ripple Katey Neate
(August 2023–April 2024) Chief Risk Officer, Securities Servicing and Digital,
BNY
Carole House
Senior Fellow, Atlantic Council and Executive in Madan Oberoi
Residence, Terranet Ventures Executive Director, Technology and Innovation,
International Criminal Police Organization
Michael Horowitz (INTERPOL)
Chief Executive Officer, Seal Storage Technology
Yannick Oberson
John Hubbard Executive Director, Head Governmental Affairs
Chief of Staff, Grayscale Investments International, UBS
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches 33
Bryan Pellegrino Anne Termine
Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer, Deputy General Counsel, Head of Policy,
LayerZero Labs Regulatory and Litigation, Yuga Labs
Pablo Portugal Jiten Varu
Senior Public Affairs Director, Regulatory, Head of Web3 EMEA, Amazon
Compliance and Public Affairs, Euroclear
Sheila Warren
Stratos Pourzitakis Chief Executive Officer,
Senior Policy Manager, HSBC Crypto Council for Innovation
Johnna Powell John Whelan
Managing Director, Technology Research Managing Director of Digital Investment Banking,
and Innovation, Depository Trust Banco Santander
and Clearing Corporation (DTCC)
Zack Yang
Monica Ramirez de Arellano Co-Founder, FOMO Pay
Head of Strategy, Digital Assets, BNY
Bryan Zhang
Jennifer Rosenthal Co-Founder and Executive Director, Cambridge
Vice-President, Communications, Centre for Alternative Finance, University of
Grayscale Investments Cambridge Judge Business School
Nilmini Rubin Additionally, the authors would like to thank the
Chief Policy Officer, Hedera Hashgraph policy-makers, regulators and industry leaders not
listed here who shared their valuable insights and
Amando Russo time through working group meetings, individual
Director of Communications, Crypto Council for dialogues and written feedback.
Innovation
Craig Salm Production
Chief Legal Officer, Grayscale Investments
Clifford Sarkin Laurence Denmark
Chief of Strategic Relations, CasperLabs Creative Director, Studio Miko
Lee Schneider Alison Moore
General Counsel, Avalanche Editor, Astra Content
Jirayut (Topp) Srupsrisopa Charles Phillips
Group Chief Executive Officer, Editor, Astra Content
Bitkub Capital Group Holdings
Oliver Turner
John Stackhouse Designer, Studio Miko
Senior Vice-President, Royal Bank of Canada
Takaya Sugina
Section Chief, Macroeconomic and Market Analysis
Office, Financial Services Agency
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches 34
Endnotes
1. CoinMarketCap. Today’s cryptocurrency prices by market cap. Retrieved September 9, 2024, from https://coinmarketcap.com/
2. Bank for International Settlements. (2024). Annual economic report No. 147: Embracing diversity, advancing together –
results of the 2023 BIS survey on central bank currencies and crypto. https://www.bis.org/publ/bppdf/bispap147.pdf
3. Forbes. (2024, July 26). Cryptocurrency prices today by market cap. https://www.forbes.com/digital-assets/crypto-
prices/?sh=73de0ac92478
4. Atlantic Council. (n.d.). Cryptocurrency Regulation Tracker. Retrieved July 30, 2024, from
https://www.atlanticcouncil.org/programs/geoeconomics-center/cryptoregulationtracker/
5. Bank for International Settlements. (2024). Annual economic report No. 147: Embracing diversity, advancing together –
results of the 2023 BIS survey on central bank currencies and crypto. https://www.bis.org/publ/bppdf/bispap147.pdf
6. European Securities and Markets Authority. (n.d.). Markets in Crypto-Assets Regulation (MiCA). Retrieved July 30, 2024,
from https://www.esma.europa.eu/esmas-activities/digital-finance-and-innovation/markets-crypto-assets-regulation-mica
7. European Union. (2023). Regulation (EU) 2023/1113 of the European Parliament and of the Council.
https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=CELEX:32023R1113
8. Shah, P. (2024). Europe’s blossoming admiration for crypto. CME Group. https://www.cmegroup.com/articles/2024/
europes-blossoming-admiration-for-crypto.html
9. European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority. (n.d.). Digital Operational Resilience Act (DORA).
Retrieved July 30, 2024, from https://www.eiopa.europa.eu/digital-operational-resilience-act-dora_en
10. European Union. (2023). Regulation (EU) 2023/1113 of the European Parliament and of the Council.
https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=CELEX:32023R1113
11. European Commission. (2021, July 20). Anti-money laundering and countering the financing of terrorism legislative
package. https://finance.ec.europa.eu/publications/anti-money-laundering-and-countering-financing-terrorism-legislative-
package_en
12. European Commission. (n.d.). Overview of anti-money laundering and countering the financing of terrorism. Retrieved July
30, 2024, from https://finance.ec.europa.eu/financial-crime/overview-anti-money-laundering-and-countering-financing-
terrorism_en
13. European Parliament. (April 24, 2024). New EU rules to combat money laundering adopted [Press release].
https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/press-room/20240419IPR20586/new-eu-rules-to-combat-money-
laundering-adopted
14. FATF. (2022, June 30), Targeted update on implementation of the FATF Standards on virtual assets and virtual asset service
providers. http://www.fatf-gafi.org/publications/fatfrecommendations/documents/targeted-update-virtual-assets-vasps.html
15. European Commission. (n.d.). European Blockchain Sandbox: European blockchain regulatory sandbox for distributed
ledger technologies. Retrieved July 30, 2024, from https://ec.europa.eu/digital-building-blocks/sites/display/EBSI/
Sandbox+Project
16. Ibid.
17. Portugal Digital. (2022). Technological Free Zones (ZLT). https://portugaldigital.gov.pt/en/accelerating-digital-transition-in-
portugal/testing-and-incorporating-new-technologies/technological-free-zones-zlt/
18. European Blockchain Sandbox. (2024, June). Best practices report – 1st Cohort, Part B. https://ec.europa.eu/
digital-building-blocks/sites/display/EBSISANDCOLLAB/Best+practices+report+2023+-+Part+B?previ
ew=/753860727/753860735/European%20Blockchain%20Sandbox%20-%20Best%20practices%20report%20-%20
Part%20B%20-%20Jun.2024.pdf
19. European Union. (2023). Regulation (EU) 2023/1114 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 31 May 2023 on
markets in crypto-assets and amending Regulations (EU) No 1093/2010 and (EU) No 1095/2010 and Directives 2013/36/
EU and (EU) 2019/1937. https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/HTML/?uri=CELEX%3A32023R1114
20. European Securities and Markets Authority. (2023). Decentralised finance in the EU: Developments and risks.
https://www.esma.europa.eu/sites/default/files/2023-10/ESMA50-2085271018-3349_TRV_Article_Decentralised_
Finance_in_the_EU_Developments_and_Risks.pdf
21. Weinstein, G. (2023, April 25). European Union outpaces unfocused United States in crypto regulation, but MiCA Article 68
raises concerns. Forbes. https://www.forbes.com/sites/digital-assets/2023/04/25/european-union-outpaces-unfocused-
united-states-in-crypto-regulation-but-mica-article-68-raises-concerns/?sh=5c1030c4e590
22. European Union. (2021). Summary of the opinion of the European Data Protection Supervisor on the Proposal for a
Regulation on Markets in Crypto-assets, and amending directive (EU) 2019/1937. EUR-Lex. https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-
content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=CELEX:52021XX0823(02)&from=EN
23. Europol. (2023, March 15). One of Darkweb’s largest cryptocurrency laundromats washed out.
https://www.europol.europa.eu/media-press/newsroom/news/one-of-darkwebs-largest-cryptocurrency-laundromats-
washed-out
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches 35
24. Europol. (2023, January 23). Bitzlato senior management arrested. https://www.europol.europa.eu/media-press/
newsroom/news/bitzlato-senior-management-arrested
25. Global Legal Insights. (2024). Blockchain and cryptocurrency laws and regulations 2024: Gibraltar.
https://www.globallegalinsights.com/practice-areas/blockchain-laws-and-regulations/gibraltar/
26. Arctic Intelligence. (n.d.). AML/CTF compliance in Gibraltar. Retrieved August 15, 2024, from
https://arctic-intelligence.com/countries/compliance-gibraltar
27. International Comparative Legal Guides (ICLG). (2024). Gibraltar: Comparative Legal Guides: Fintech. https://iclg.com/
jurisdictions/gibraltar
28. Shumba, C. (2022, November 1). Gibraltar will focus on stablecoins and DeFi lending after market turmoil. CoinDesk.
https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/11/01/gibraltar-will-focus-on-stablecoins-and-defi-lending-after-market-turmoil/
29. Government of Gibraltar. (2021, March 22). Proceeds of Crime Act 2015 (Transfer of Virtual Assets) Regulations 2021.
https://www.gibraltarlaws.gov.gi/uploads/legislations/proceeds-of-crime/2021s194/2021s194.pdf#viewer.
action=download
30. CMS Law. (n.d.). CMS expert guide to crypto regulation: Gibraltar. Retrieved August 15, 2024, from https://cms.law/en/int
/expert-guides/cms-expert-guide-to-crypto-regulation/gibraltar
31. Financial Services and the Treasury Bureau of the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (2023).
Policy Statement on Development of Virtual Assets in Hong Kong. https://gia.info.gov.hk/general/202210/31/P202210300
0454_404805_1_1667173469522.pdf
32. Securities and Futures Commission. (2023). Guideline on anti-money laundering and counter-financing of terrorism
(for licensed corporations and SFC-licensed virtual asset service providers). https://www.sfc.hk/-/media/EN/assets/
components/codes/files-current/web/guidelines/guideline-on-anti-money-laundering-and-counter-financing-
of-terrorism-for-licensed-corporations/AML-Guideline-for-LCs-and-SFC-licensed-VASPs_Eng_1-Jun-2023.
pdf?rev=d250206851484229ab949a4698761cb7
33. Securities and Futures Commission. (n.d.). Virtual asset trading platforms operators. Retrieved July 30, 2024, from
https://www.sfc.hk/en/Welcome-to-the-Fintech-Contact-Point/Virtual-assets/Virtual-asset-trading-platforms-operators
34. Lee, S., & Li, A. (2023). Breaking down Hong Kong’s new virtual asset guidelines. Crypto Council for Innovation.
https://cryptoforinnovation.org/breaking-down-hong-kongs-new-virtual-asset-guidelines/
35. Securities and Futures Commission. (2017, September 29). Circular to announce the SFC Regulatory Sandbox.
https://apps.sfc.hk/edistributionWeb/gateway/EN/circular/doc?refNo=17EC63#:~:text=The%20SFC%20recognises%20
that%20firms,the%20Hong%20Kong%20financial%20services
36. Hong Kong Monetary Authority. (2024, March 12). HKMA announces new measures to support financial stability
[Press release]. https://www.hkma.gov.hk/eng/news-and-media/press-releases/2024/03/20240312-4/
37. Hong Kong Monetary Authority. (2024, April 16). Risk management considerations related to the use of distributed ledger
technology. https://www.hkma.gov.hk/media/eng/doc/key-information/guidelines-and-circular/2024/20240416e1.pdf
38. Securities and Futures Commission. (2023, June). Guidelines for virtual asset trading platform operators. https://www.sfc.
hk/-/media/EN/assets/components/codes/files-current/web/guidelines/Guidelines-for-Virtual-Asset-Trading-Platform-
Operators/Guidelines-for-Virtual-Asset-Trading-Platform-Operators.pdf?rev=f6152ff73d2b4e8a8ce9dc025030c3b8
39. Hong Kong Monetary Authority. (2024, February 20). Provision of custodial services for digital assets.
https://www.hkma.gov.hk/media/eng/doc/key-information/guidelines-and-circular/2024/20240220e4.pdf
40. Droulers, A., & Ghosh, A. (2023, July 5). Why Hong Kong wants to be a hub for the crypto sector. Bloomberg. https://
www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2023-07-05/why-hong-kong-wants-to-be-a-hub-for-the-crypto-sector
41. Au, L., & Handagama, S. (2023, May 23). Hong Kong securities regulator to accept license applications for crypto
exchanges starting June 1. CoinDesk. https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2023/05/23/hong-kong-securities-regulator-to-
accept-license-applications-for-crypto-exchanges-starting-june-1/
42. Droulers, A., & Wong, K. (2023, June 16). Hong Kong doubles effort to help crypto industry with new initiatives.
Yahoo Finance. https://finance.yahoo.com/news/hong-kong-doubles-effort-help-000054287.html?guccounter=1&guce_
referrer=aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuZ29vZ2xlLmNvbS8&guce_referrer_sig=AQAAABGaUYB_C9yoOkIBqLrFonc1JbQ63vFRGlo
Cg4ts8XOjjouteWsAbWeXhY0clVA5u4BYeY0ZKpgUZTYDmlQbKt6mjjdMuTGptI3Ta6c6oVhBEYRrVJD8e3neYqzSK
YvvUEAe7NY0VrWupFibVdyaDYtS9jgzHaLASsC6SunqhAOa
43. Au, L. (2023, August 4). Hong Kong’s new crypto license could cost exchanges a pretty penny. CoinDesk.
https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2023/08/04/hong-kongs-new-crypto-license-could-cost-exchanges-a-pretty-penny/
44. Financial Services Agency. https://www.fsa.go.jp/en/
45. Japanese Law Translation. (n.d). Payment Services Act. Retrieved August 7, 2024, from
https://www.japaneselawtranslation.go.jp/en/laws/view/3078/en
46. Freeman Law. (n.d.). Japan and cryptocurrency. Retrieved August 7, 2024, from
https://freemanlaw.com/cryptocurrency/japan/
47. Sanction Scanner. (n.d.) Cryptocurrency regulations in Japan. Retrieved August 7, 2024, from
https://www.sanctionscanner.com/blog/cryptocurrency-regulations-in-japan-492#:~:text=Under%20the%20
PSA%2C%20cryptocurrency%20exchanges,providing%20greater%20protection%20to%20investors
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches 36
48. Cabinet Office, Government of Japan. (n.d.). Regulatory sandbox. Retrieved August 7, 2024, from https://www.cas.go.jp/
jp/seisaku/s-portal/regulatorysandbox_e.html
49. Dale, B. (2023, January 24). Crypto Japan exchanges financial regulation. Axios. https://www.axios.com/2023/01/24/
crypto-japan-exchanges-financial-regulation
50. Global Legal Insights. (n.d.). Japan: Blockchain and cryptocurrency laws and regulations – 2024. Retrieved August 7, 2024,
from https://www.globallegalinsights.com/practice-areas/blockchain-laws-and-regulations/japan
51. AMT Law. (2022, September 27). Amendments to the Payment Services Act and the Acton Prevention of Transfer of
Criminal Proceeds, etc. (Introduction of Regulations on Stablecoins). https://www.amt-law.com/asset/pdf/bulletins2_
pdf/220927.pdf
52. Sanction Scanner. (n.d.). Cryptocurrency regulations in Japan. Retrieved August 7, 2024, from
https://www.sanctionscanner.com/blog/cryptocurrency-regulations-in-japan-492#:~:text=Under%20the%20
PSA%2C%20cryptocurrency%20exchanges,providing%20greater%20protection%20to%20investors
53. Au, L. (2022, October 21). Some, not all, crypto token screenings will be scrapped, Japan’s JVCEA official says. CoinDesk.
https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/10/21/some-not-all-crypto-token-screenings-will-be-scrapped-japans-jvcea-
official-says/
54. Crawley, J. (2023, January 18). Coinbase confirms it is halting operations in Japan. CoinDesk. https://www.coindesk.com/
business/2023/01/18/coinbase-confirms-it-is-halting-operations-in-japan/
55. Selby Jennings. (2023, November). Singapore’s rise as Asia’s fintech hub: A deep dive into fintech investment, crypto,
and beyond. https://www.selbyjennings.sg/blog/2023/11/singapores-rise-as-asias-fintech-hub-a-deep-dive-into-fintech-
investment-crypto-and-beyond#:~:text=Singapore%20has%20rightfully%20earned%20its,.com%2C%20Airwallex%20
and%20Wise
56. Monetary Authority of Singapore. (n.d.). Payment Services Act 2019. Retrieved August 7, 2024, from
https://www.mas.gov.sg/regulation/acts/payment-services-act
57. Monetary Authority of Singapore. (2022). Financial Services and Markets Act 2022. https://www.mas.gov.sg/regulation/
acts/financial-services-and-markets-act-2022
58. Ahmed, H. (2024, February 22). Singaporeans crypto adoption remains high; staking emerges as top use case. Coinbase.
https://www.coinbase.com/blog/singaporeans-crypto-adoption-remains-high-staking-emerges-as-top-use-case
59. Monetary Authority of Singapore. (2023). MAS partners policy-makers to foster responsible digital asset innovation.
https://www.mas.gov.sg/news/media-releases/2023/mas-partners-policy-makers-to-foster-responsible-digital-asset-
innovation/
60. Financial Action Task Force. (n.d.). Singapore. Retrieved August 8, 2024, from https://www.fatf-gafi.org/en/countries/
detail/Singapore.html
61. Monetary Authority of Singapore. (n.d.). Prevention of money laundering and countering the financing of terrorism.
Retrieved August 8, 2024, from https://www.mas.gov.sg/-/media/MAS/Regulations-and-Financial-Stability/Regulatory-
and-Supervisory-Framework/Anti_Money-Laundering_Countering-the-Financing-of-Terrorism/PSN02-Prevention-of-
Money-Laundering-and-Countering-the-Financing-of-Terrorism--Digital-Payment-Toke.pdf
62. Smart Nation Singapore. (n.d.). National digital Identity. https://www.smartnation.gov.sg/initiatives/national-digital-identity/
63. Monetary Authority of Singapore. (2023, August 15). Response to public consultation on proposed regulatory approach
for stablecoin-related activities. https://www.mas.gov.sg/-/media/mas-media-library/publications/consultations/pd/2023/
response-to-consultation-on-stablecoins-regulation_15aug2023.pdf
64. Monetary Authority of Singapore. (n.d.). Overview of regulatory sandbox. Retrieved August 7, 2024, from
https://www.mas.gov.sg/development/fintech/regulatory-sandbox
65. Monetary Authority of Singapore. (2023, November 3). MAS strengthens regulatory measures for digital payment token
services [Press release]. https://www.mas.gov.sg/news/media-releases/2023/mas-strengthens-regulatory-measures-for-
digital-payment-token-services
66. Monetary Authority of Singapore. (2022, January 17). Guidelines on provision of digital payment token services to the
public. https://www.mas.gov.sg/regulation/guidelines/ps-g02-guidelines-on-provision-of-digital-payment-token-
services-to-the-public
67. Monetary Authority of Singapore. (2023, July 3). MAS publishes investor protection measures for digital payment token
services. https://www.mas.gov.sg/news/media-releases/2023/mas-publishes-investor-protection-measures-for-digital-
payment-token-services
68. Standard Chartered. (2023, October 19). Smart regulation for digital assets: How the UAE and Singapore lead the way.
https://www.sc.com/en/news/corporates/smart-regulation-digital-assets-uae-singapore-lead-way-2/
69. Ikigai Law. (2023, January 27). Cryptocurrency regulation in Singapore: Challenges and opportunities ahead.
https://www.ikigailaw.com/article/231/cryptocurrency-regulation-in-singapore-challenges-and-opportunities-ahead
70. Parker, E. (2023. December 14). Crypto-friendly does not mean crypto-easy. CoinDesk. https://www.coindesk.com/
opinion/2023/12/14/crypto-friendly-does-not-mean-crypto-easy/
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches 37
71. Monetary Authority of Singapore. (2022, October 26). MAS proposes measures to reduce risks to consumers from
cryptocurrency trading and enhance standards of stablecoin-related activities [Press release]. https://www.mas.gov.sg/
news/media-releases/2022/mas-proposes-measures-to-reduce-risks-to-consumers-from-cryptocurrency-trading-and-
enhance-standards-of-stablecoin-related-activities
72. Ghosh, S. (2023, January 6). Singapore’s leading crypto group opposes proposed ban on lending tokens. Bloomberg.
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2023-01-06/singapore-crypto-group-opposes-proposed-ban-on-lending-tokens
73. Ibid.
74. Kamsky, A. (2023, July 19). Switzerland crypto regulation guide 2023. CNN. https://www.ccn.com/education/switzerland-
crypto-regulation-guide-2023/
75. Global Legal Insights. (n.d.). Switzerland: Blockchain laws and regulations 2023. Retrieved August 7, 2024, from
https://www.globallegalinsights.com/practice-areas/blockchain-laws-and-regulations/Switzerland
76. Kamsky, A. (2023, July 19). Switzerland crypto regulation guide 2023. CNN. https://www.ccn.com/education/switzerland-
crypto-regulation-guide-2023/
77. Denisenko, N. (2023, November 30). Crypto tax haven: Switzerland outpaces regulatory competition. Finance Magnates.
https://www.financemagnates.com/cryptocurrency/crypto-tax-haven-switzerland-outpaces-regulatory-competition/
78. Federal Department of Finance. (2023, July 6). Switzerland strengthens anti-money laundering framework.
https://www.newsd.admin.ch/newsd/message/attachments/87809.pdf
79. SwissInfo. (2023, May 17). Swiss regulator shuts down rogue crypto school. https://www.swissinfo.ch/eng/sci-tech/swiss-
regulator-shuts-down-rogue-crypto-school/48519976
80. United Arab Emirates, the Cabinet. (2022). Cabinet resolution no. 111 of 2022 concerning the regulation of virtual assets
and their service. Securities and Commodities Authority. https://www.sca.gov.ae/assets/d7a86b26/cabinet-resolution-no-
111-of-2022-concerning-the-regulation-of-virtual-assets-and-their-service.aspx
81. Global Media Insight (GMI). (2024, May 21). Cryptocurrency in Dubai – guide for UAE crypto traders.
https://www.globalmediainsight.com/blog/cryptocurrency-dubai/#:~:text=The%20Central%20Bank%20of%20
UAE,and%20deposit%20and%20trade%20them
82. Mills, L. (2024, May 8). The rise of crypto in the UAE: A hub for innovation. Crypto for Innovation. https://cryptoforinnovation.
org/the-rise-of-crypto-in-the-uae-a-hub-for-innovation/
83. Government of Dubai: Virtual Assets Regulatory Authority (VARA). (n.d.). Retrieved August 7, 2024, from
https://www.vara.ae/en/
84. Government of Dubai. (2022). Law No. (4) of 2022 regulating virtual assets. https://dlp.dubai.gov.ae/Legislation%20
Reference/2022/Law%20No.%20(4)%20of%202022%20Regulating%20Virtual%20Assets.html
85. Jones Day. (2023, April). Dubai’s digital assets aspirations. https://www.jonesday.com/en/insights/2022/11/dubais-digital-
assets-aspirations#:%7E:text=VARA’s%20Authority&text=VARA%20is%20mandated%20to%20protect,expand%2C%20
and%20prohibit%20these%20activities
86. Hunt, J. (2024, March 15). Dubai’s tax-free economic zone DIFC enacts new Digital Assets Law. The Block.
https://www.theblock.co/post/282811/dubai-difc-digital-assets-law
87. Central Bank of the UAE. (2023, February). Guidance for licensed financial institutions on risks related to virtual assets
and virtual asset service providers. https://www.centralbank.ae/media/avwlktgy/cbuae-guidance-for-lfis-on-risks-related-
to-virtual-assets-and-virtual-assets-providers_final-clean-version1.pdf
88. Government of Dubai: Virtual Assets Regulatory Authority. (n.d.). C. AML/CFT controls. Retrieved August 7, 2024, from
https://rulebooks.vara.ae/rulebook/c-amlcft-controls
89. Ahmed, Y. A. (2023, November 3). XRP and TON cleared for use in Dubai financial hub. Yahoo Finance.
https://finance.yahoo.com/news/xrp-ton-cleared-dubai-financial-063605176.html
90. F6S. (2024, August 15). 24 top DeFi companies and startups in United Arab Emirates in August 2024.
https://www.f6s.com/companies/defi/united-arab-emirates/co
91. Jones Day. (2023, April). Dubai’s digital assets aspirations. https://www.jonesday.com/en/insights/2022/11/dubais-digital-
assets-aspirations#:%7E:text=VARA’s%20Authority&text=VARA%20is%20mandated%20to%20protect,expand%2C%20
and%20prohibit%20these%20activities
92. Government of Dubai. (2022). Law No. (4) of 2022 regulating virtual assets in the Emirate of Dubia. https://dlp.dubai.gov.ae
/Legislation%20Reference/2022/Law%20No.%20(4)%20of%202022%20Regulating%20Virtual%20Assets.html
93. Widmann, S. (2023, November 16). How the UAE became a crypto hub poised for explosive growth. Forbes.
https://www.forbes.com/sites/digital-assets/2023/11/16/how-the-uae-became-a-crypto-hub-poised-for-explosive-
growth/?sh=19f7ec7e32a8
94. Ahmed, Y. A. (2023, November 3). XRP and TON cleared for use in Dubai financial hub. Yahoo Finance.
https://finance.yahoo.com/news/xrp-ton-cleared-dubai-financial-063605176.html
95. Watson Farley & Williams. (2023, July 17). Regulatory update: Regulation of virtual assets in the UAE. https://www.wfw.com/
articles/regulatory-update-regulation-of-virtual-assets-in-the-uae/
96. Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP. (2023, September 19). UK enacts legislation to bring cryptoassets within scope of
existing financial services regulatory regime. https://www.akingump.com/en/insights/alerts/uk-enacts-regulation-of-crypto
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches 38
97. KPMG. (2023). A UK regulatory regime for cryptoassets. https://kpmg.com/xx/en/home/insights/2023/02/a-uk-regulatory-
regime-for-cryptoassets.html
98. HM Treasury. (2023, October). Future financial services regulatory regime for cryptoassets: Response to the consultation
and call for evidence. https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/media/653bd1a180884d0013f71cca/Future_financial_
services_regulatory_regime_for_cryptoassets_RESPONSE.pdf
99. United Kingdom Law Commission. (2024, February 22). Digital assets: Call for evidence and draft legislation.
Law Commission. https://lawcom.gov.uk/digital-assets-call-for-evidence-and-draft-legislation/
100. Financial Conduct Authority. (2023, November). Regulating cryptoassets phase 1: Stablecoins. https://www.fca.org.uk/
publication/discussion/dp23-4.pdf
101. Financial Conduct Authority. (2023, June 7). Financial promotion rules for cryptoassets: Policy statement 23/6.
https://www.fca.org.uk/publications/policy-statements/ps23-6-financial-promotion-rules-cryptoassets
102. Legislation.gov.uk. (2023). Financial Services and Markets Act 2023. The National Archives. https://www.legislation.gov.uk
/ukpga/2023/29/contents
103. Financial Conduct Authority. (2023, July 20). Launch of permanent digital sandbox. https://www.fca.org.uk/news/news-
stories/launch-permanent-digital-sandbox
104. Voisin, M., Hay, R., Le Vesconte, S., & Sanford, S. (2023, December 22). UK Digital Securities Sandbox set to take effect.
Linklaters. https://www.linklaters.com/en/insights/blogs/fintechlinks/2023/december/uk-digital-securities-sandbox-set-to-
take-effect
105. Bank of England & Financial Conduct Authority. (2024, April 3). Digital Securities Sandbox joint Bank of England and FCA
consultation paper. Bank of England. https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/paper/2024/cp/digital-securities-sandbox-joint-
bank-of-england-and-fca-consultation-paper
106. HM Treasury. (2023, October). Future financial services regulatory regime for cryptoassets: Response to the consultation
and call for evidence. https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/media/653bd1a180884d0013f71cca/Future_financial_
services_regulatory_regime_for_cryptoassets_RESPONSE.pdf
107. Bank of England. (n.d.). Prudential regulation. Retrieved May 15, 2024, from https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/
prudential-regulation
108. Financial Conduct Authority. (2024). Cryptoassets: AML/CTF regime. https://www.fca.org.uk/firms/financial-crime/
cryptoassets-aml-ctf-regime
109. Craig, T., & Wright, J. (2023, February 2). UK floats DeFi oversight to mitigate crypto “regulatory arbitrage”. DL News.
https://www.dlnews.com/articles/defi/uk-floats-defi-oversight-mitigate-crypto-regulatory-arbitrage/
110. Ibid.
111. Shumba, C. (2023, October 4). Why some crypto firms are suspending services in the UK. CoinDesk.
https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2023/10/04/why-some-crypto-firms-are-suspending-services-in-the-uk/
112. House Committee on Financial Services. (2024, May 22). House passes Financial Innovation and Technology for the
21st Century Act with overwhelming bipartisan support. https://financialservices.house.gov/news/documentsingle.
aspx?DocumentID=409277
113. Birnbaum, D. (2024, May 18). Bitcoin’s rising tide and the overturning of SAB 121. Forbes. https://www.forbes.com/sites/
davidbirnbaum/2024/05/18/bitcoins-rising-tide-and-the--overturning-of-sab-121/?sh=5cc9fb7c3da4
114. U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. (2022, April 11). Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 121. https://www.sec.gov/oca/
staff-accounting-bulletin-121
115. Department of the Treasury, Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. (2013, March 18). Application of FinCEN’s regulations
to persons administering, exchanging, or using virtual currencies. https://www.fincen.gov/sites/default/files/shared/FIN-
2013-G001.pdf
116. Financial Action Task Force. (2021, June). Guidance for a risk-based approach: Virtual assets and virtual asset service
providers. https://www.fatf-gafi.org/media/fatf/documents/recommendations/RBA-VA-VASPs.pdf
117. Durham J. (2023). Regulatory sandboxes enable pragmatic blockchain regulation. Washington Journal of Law, Technology
& Arts, 18(1). https://digitalcommons.law.uw.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1324&context=wjlta
118. Arizona Attorney General. (2018). Regulatory sandbox program. https://www.azag.gov/sandbox
119. Wyoming Banking Division. (n.d.). Financial technology sandbox. Retrieved August 15, 2024, from
https://wyomingbankingdivision.wyo.gov/banks-and-trust-companies/financial-technology-sandbox
120. Buckley. (2022, September 29). CFPB rescinds no-action letter and sandbox policies. https://buckleyfirm.com/blog/2022-
09-29/cfpb-rescinds-no-action-letter-and-sandbox-policies
121. U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. (2023). Framework for “investment contract” analysis of digital assets.
https://www.sec.gov/corpfin/framework-investment-contract-analysis-digital-assets
122. Federal Trade Commission. (n.d.). Data security. Retrieved August 15, 2024, from https://www.ftc.gov/business-
guidance/privacy-security/data-security
123. Wyoming Legislature. (2023). SF0076: Wyoming digital asset registration act. https://wyoleg.gov/Legislation/2023/SF0076
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches 39
124. Fletcher, E. (2022, June 3). Reports show scammers cashing in on crypto craze. Federal Trade Commission.
https://www.ftc.gov/news-events/data-visualizations/data-spotlight/2022/06/reports-show-scammers-cashing-crypto-craze
125. Program on International Financial Systems. (2024, June). Implementing an effective cryptoasset regulatory framework in
the US. https://www.pifsinternational.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/05/PIFS-Implementing-an-Effective-Cryptoasset-
Regulatory-Framework-in-the-US.pdf
126. U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. (2022, July 21). Re: Petition for rulemaking – digital asset securities regulation.
https://www.sec.gov/files/rules/petitions/2022/petn4-789.pdf
127. Ligon, C., & Nelson, D. (2024, May 21). Uniswap Labs urges SEC to drop pending enforcement action in Wells response.
Coindesk. https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2024/05/21/uniswap-labs-urges-sec-to-drop-pending-enforcement-action-
in-wells-response/
128. Yaffe-Bellany, D. (2023, June 7). Crypto firms start looking abroad as U.S. cracks down. The New York Times.
https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/07/technology/crypto-firms-start-looking-abroad-as-us-cracks-down.
html#:%7E:text=Coinbase%2C%20the%20largest%20crypto%20exchange,shut%20down%20its%20U.S.%20operations
129. Euroclear. (2024, May 29). Digital asset securities control principles. Euroclear. https://www.euroclear.com/
newsandinsights/en/Format/Whitepapers-Reports/digital-asset-securities-control-principles.html
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches 40
The World Economic Forum,
committed to improving
the state of the world, is the
International Organization for
Public-Private Cooperation.
The Forum engages the
foremost political, business
and other leaders of society
to shape global, regional
and industry agendas.
World Economic Forum
91–93 route de la Capite
CH-1223 Cologny/Geneva
Switzerland
Tel.: +41 (0) 22 869 1212
Fax: +41 (0) 22 786 2744
contact@weforum.org
www.weforum.org