decentralized due diligence assessments tailored to the unique technological needs of the digital assets ecosystem the decentralized nature of crypto-native companies poses specific challenges that require technology-centered due diligence. these challenges extend beyond traditional technology and finance, including custody, layer-1 protocols, smart contracts, dapps, token offerings, defi projects, crypto mining operations, and crypto exchanges. fti technology s services are designed to effectively address these unique challenges, offering expertise and insights that surpass and complement traditional document-based due diligence assessments. 2 fti consulting, inc. decentralized due diligence our services fti technology s blockchain digital assets practice leads technology-centered due diligence assessments across the industry. we guide investors, transaction teams, crypto-native companies, strategic buyers, and traditional organizations looking to incorporate digital assets into their operations. we deliver actionable reports focused on digital risk mitigation and industry best practices by independently evaluating market position, technical and business operations, governance practices, leadership teams, and security postures. transactional due diligence transactional due diligence is essential for investors services include: moving into web3 business opportunities. our team of operational diligence experts can evaluate a target s reliability, legitimacy and technology assessments positioning for success. we validate and verify assets regulatory risk and compliance assessments under custody and review whether the industry s best custody of virtual assets practices have been implemented across technologies third-party risk assessments and program development. additionally, we evaluate user evaluations company leadership, organizational governance, and third- party vendor programs to identify and mitigate potential risks such as regulatory non-compliance, data breaches, malicious use, and funds flow. this comprehensive assessment helps investors make informed, risk-based decisions and protect their investments. regulatory compliance cryptocurrencies and digital assets operate leaders, and legal advisors seeking practical guidance internationally and must comply with various regional for their clients. regulations. organizations must adhere to these laws services include: to earn the trust of customers and regulators and avoid aml and sanctions program audits penalties for non-compliance. whether organizations safety, soundness, and prudential risk reviews use digital assets for transparency, security, or efficiency, interim senior leadership roles cco, cro, aml officer, senior leaders must understand the associated risks and sanctions officer fulfill compliance obligations. transaction monitoring and rules tuning fti technology s blockchain digital assets experts have licensing application assistance extensive experience managing complex regulatory and regulatory examination prep compliance issues on behalf of senior management and product listing program reviews outside counsel. we understand that each organization is anti-fraud program advisory unique, and tailor our services to meet each client s specific compliance training and education obligations and risks. this personalized approach ensures remediations and lookbacks that we can create, implement and enhance cost-effective compliance tool integration and optimization and defensible programs best suited for our clients. data maturity, modeling, and validation assessments our services cater to a diverse range of organizations, including emerging startups, established industry decentralized due diligence fti consulting, inc. 3 our services continued : proactive due diligence for maturing crypto entities the rapid development of decentralized technology is services include: unprecedented. adjusting strategies and pivoting to layer-1 assessments remain competitive can outpace the implementation of virtual asset custody assessments new controls and data management techniques. proactive, governance, staffing, and executive team assessments thorough due diligence can improve a company s roadmap regulatory compliance program roadmaps with built-in security, regulatory compliance, and best practices, reducing operational and financial risk as the company expands. representative engagements layer-1 partnership evaluation a major financial services company sought to gain deeper our impact insights into a blockchain platform they were considering our multifaceted comprehensive report as a potential partner. this financial institution meticulously highlighted strengths and areas understood the critical importance of thorough due for concern in critical areas such as corporate diligence in the blockchain and digital asset space, structure, reputational risk, adverse publicity, where operational, legal, and reputational factors can operational risk, governance and regulatory significantly impact business relationships. risks. it provided valuable information about the strengths and potential areas of concern, our role instilling confidence and allowing the client to fti technology was retained to conduct a comprehensive assess their partnership opportunity thoroughly. business intelligence assessment and due diligence of provided the client with crucial data to make the blockchain platform. the process was thorough, an informed decision about the viability of aiming to identify and evaluate potential risks and the potential partnership. this essential vulnerabilities associated with their personnel, operations, data evaluated the long-term potential of a regulatory compliance, and public perception. the team partnership, including a comprehensive analysis also conducted a preliminary analysis of the platform s of the platform s financial health covering sources relationships with other crypto companies that recently of wealth, token distribution and potential faced scrutiny, providing context for the client s decision- financial crime exposure. making process. the due diligence included detailed evaluations of the following: provided the client with a comprehensive technical and operational risk review and corporate structure and governance opportunities. conducted an in-depth evaluation executive backgrounds and responsibilities of the blockchain performance, including digital media presence analyzing downtime incidents and their impact industry relationships and partnerships on token prices. financial health and token economics technical infrastructure and blockchain performance reputational risks threat landscape regulatory compliance and risk management 4 fti consulting, inc. decentralized due diligence case study fortune 500 company turns to fti technology s blockchain digital assets experts for technical and operational due diligence in potential crypto acquisition situation our role considering acquiring a fti technology was retained to our impact cryptocurrency exchange, a fortune conduct a detailed assessment 500 company asked fti technology s and validation of a cryptocurrency blockchain digital assets practice exchange s maturity regarding to assess the target s technical and digital asset holdings, technical operational aspects. acquiring a infrastructure and business company in the cryptocurrency operations. the due diligence delivered a detailed space requires specialized expertise included a close evaluation of the report covering the and careful consideration across following: target company s current technical, operational and market cryptocurrency operations strengths and gaps. the factors. acquiring companies must team also advised the client third-party vendor risk consider if the target company s on recommended steps technical infrastructure is resilient assets under custody and necessary to remediate and meets security, privacy and management gaps, which fully informed regulatory requirements. additionally, targeted business analysis the client s dealmaking they must evaluate assets under decisions and negotiations. r d roadmap custody and other factors determining provided client with a competitive differentiation and market the team also evaluated additional competitive business performance during crypto-specific competitors in the market as potential roadmap and position in acquisitions. without experts who partners and targets for the client to the market for the various understand what to look for and how consider as part of its broader digital options it considered. to analyze it, these details can be assets strategy. challenging to determine or measure. decentralized due diligence fti consulting, inc. 5 case study fti consulting finance and cryptocurrency our impact experts support galaxy digital s $1.2b acquisition of bitgo situation through a unique understanding and approach to acquisition due when galaxy digital sought to uncovered potential risks to diligence, the team was able to acquire an institutional digital privacy and data security, quickly deliver technical, data asset custody, trading, and finance which were quickly security and operational assessments provider, it turned to fti s blockchain remediated prior to closing while developing an expedited path and digital assets practice for an the transaction. based on to financial due diligence based in-depth audit of digital assets, findings, additional legal on a deep understanding of how business models and infrastructure language was added to the cryptocurrency businesses monetize. in support of due diligence activities. agreement to protect the with in-depth knowledge of wallets, in addition to traditional due acquirer. behavior of cryptocurrency exchanges diligence in m a transactions, successfully assessed and the operational hurdles it is particularly challenging but strength of digital asset unique to the world of blockchain, imperative to fully understand the technology, supporting fti technology s experts were able to landscape of the target company s infrastructure and future design and execute a unique strategy cryptocurrency assets framework growth plans for the to confirm ownership and prove and business model in order to verify most impactful product validity of auc. assets under custody auc . development roadmap and in addition to supporting the client our role continued innovation. with verifying cryptocurrency assets fti technology s blockchain and infrastructure, the technical designed and executed a digital assets experts provided assessment included a close look at unique strategy to confirm the client with a detailed and data privacy and security including ownership of controlled verified technical audit of the target risk areas that could impact the assets and auc assets company s cryptocurrency auc, transaction. through a detailed risk under management. technology roadmap, infrastructure, evaluation, the team helped the client business models and privacy and identify and mitigate all potential security practices. risks in the acquisition and provided guidance for remedial actions throughout the due diligence process. 6 fti consulting, inc. decentralized due diligence our experts steve mcnew mike carter senior managing director and global lead of the senior managing director blockchain digital assets practice 1 917 557-0765 1 936 232-9994 mike.carter fticonsulting.com steve.mcnew fticonsulting.com mike carter is an expert in digital assets, regulatory steven s. mcnew is a leading expert in blockchain and compliance, and financial crime investigations. mr. cryptocurrency forensics analytics, enterprise blockchain carter has extensive experience providing advisory and implementation, and digital forensics. he has led investigative services for financial crime matters globally, numerous investigations into claims involving fraud or including leading compliance and risk engagements misuse of cryptocurrencies, stolen digital assets, and led for fortune 500 companies, assisting global financial asset tracing investigations into cases involving ponzi institutions in investigations of high-risk customers and schemes and rico claims in class action lawsuits. he has potentially suspicious transactions, and developing led bankruptcy, m a, and strategy assignments in the compliance roadmaps for tradfi and digital asset firms to cryptocurrency and blockchain sector. mr. mcnew has address risk and regulatory compliance concerns. offered expert testimony 19 times in the us and australia, has authored numerous expert reports and is frequently published for his thought leadership in industry media. decentralized due diligence fti consulting, inc. 77 our experts continued preston fischer jessica de brignac david brill managing director managing director managing director 1 214 213-2458 1 646 453-1244 1 917 923-3800 preston.fischer fticonsulting.com jessica.debrignac fticonsulting.com david.brill fticonsulting.com preston fischer is a digital risk and jessica de brignac is a digital risk david brill was pivotal in shaping innovation expert with a focus on management and intelligence expert significant milestones within the blockchain and digital assets. mr. providing blockchain and digital digital assets industry. as general fischer brings more than 20 years of asset advisory services to global counsel for several fintech companies, experience in emerging technology, clients. she specializes in helping he leveraged his legal expertise and innovation and digital risk businesses navigate blockchain and background in financial services management across consultancies, digital asset innovation, risk, and and technology to tackle intricate technology organizations, and growth opportunities. she supports regulatory, legal, and compliance public affairs. his expertise helps innovation in emerging technologies, challenges for global organizations and clients address risk while driving including metaverse adoption startups in the digital assets space. advancement and includes innovative she brings more than 15 years of mr. brill brings more than two considerations into web3 and experience solving data-related decades of experience in law, metaverse adoption. business challenges, with expertise in strategy, operations, compliance, and legal and regulatory matters. enterprise risk management, honed across large financial institutions, international organizations, and startups. his guidance has been instrumental in navigating complex fintech and compliance matters, intricate litigation, regulatory hurdles, and mergers and acquisitions. 8 fti consulting, inc. decentralized due diligence about fti technology, a segment of fti consulting fti technology solves data-related business challenges, with expertise in legal and regulatory matters. as data grows in size and complexity, we help organizations better govern, secure, find, analyze and rapidly make sense of information. innovative technology, expert services and tenacious problem- solving provide our global clients with defensible and repeatable solutions. organizations rely on us to root out fraud, maintain regulatory compliance, reduce legal and it costs, protect sensitive materials, quickly find facts and harness organizational data to create business value. for more information, please visit www.ftitechnology.com. decentralized due diligence fti consulting, inc. 9 steven s. mcnew mike carter senior managing director senior managing director 1 936 232-9994 1 305 714-4611 steve.mcnew fticonsulting.com mike.carter fticonsulting.com preston fischer jessica de brignac managing director managing director 1 214 213-2458 1 646 453-1244 preston.fischer fticonsulting.com jessica.debrignac fticonsulting.com david brill managing director 1 917 923-3800 david.brill fticonsulting.com fti consulting is an independent global business advisory firm dedicated to helping organizations manage change, mitigate risk and resolve disputes: financial, legal, operational, political regulatory, reputational and transactional. fti consulting professionals, located in all major business centers throughout the world, work closely with clients to anticipate, illuminate and overcome complex business challenges and opportunities. 2024 fti consulting, inc. all rights reserved. fticonsulting.com