Decentralized
Due Diligence
ASSESSMENTS TAILORED TO THE UNIQUE TECHNOLOGICAL
NEEDS OF THE DIGITAL ASSETS ECOSYSTEM
The decentralized nature of crypto-native companies poses
specific challenges that require technology-centered due
diligence. These challenges extend beyond traditional technology
and finance, including custody, layer-1 protocols, smart
contracts, dApps, token offerings, DeFi projects, crypto mining
operations, and crypto exchanges. FTI Technology’s services are
designed to effectively address these unique challenges, offering
expertise and insights that surpass and complement traditional
document-based due diligence assessments.
2 FTI Consulting, Inc. DECENTRALIZED DUE DILIGENCE
Our Services
FTI Technology’s Blockchain & Digital Assets practice leads technology-centered due diligence
assessments across the industry. We guide investors, transaction teams, crypto-native companies,
strategic buyers, and traditional organizations looking to incorporate digital assets into their
operations. We deliver actionable reports focused on digital risk mitigation and industry best
practices by independently evaluating market position, technical and business operations,
governance practices, leadership teams, and security postures.
Transactional Due Diligence
Transactional due diligence is essential for investors Services include:
moving into web3 business opportunities. Our team of
— Operational Diligence
experts can evaluate a target’s reliability, legitimacy and
— Technology Assessments
positioning for success. We validate and verify assets
— Regulatory Risk and Compliance Assessments
under custody and review whether the industry’s best
— Custody of Virtual Assets
practices have been implemented across technologies
— Third-Party Risk Assessments
and program development. Additionally, we evaluate
— User Evaluations
company leadership, organizational governance, and third-
party vendor programs to identify and mitigate potential
risks such as regulatory non-compliance, data breaches,
malicious use, and funds flow. This comprehensive
assessment helps investors make informed, risk-based
decisions and protect their investments.
Regulatory Compliance
Cryptocurrencies and digital assets operate leaders, and legal advisors seeking practical guidance
internationally and must comply with various regional for their clients.
regulations. Organizations must adhere to these laws
Services include:
to earn the trust of customers and regulators and avoid
— AML and Sanctions Program Audits
penalties for non-compliance. Whether organizations
— Safety, Soundness, and Prudential Risk Reviews
use digital assets for transparency, security, or efficiency,
— Interim Senior Leadership Roles (CCO, CRO, AML Officer,
senior leaders must understand the associated risks and
Sanctions Officer)
fulfill compliance obligations.
— Transaction Monitoring and Rules Tuning
FTI Technology’s Blockchain & Digital Assets experts have
— Licensing Application Assistance
extensive experience managing complex regulatory and
— Regulatory Examination Prep
compliance issues on behalf of senior management and
— Product Listing Program Reviews
outside counsel. We understand that each organization is
— Anti-Fraud Program Advisory
unique, and tailor our services to meet each client’s specific
— Compliance Training and Education
obligations and risks. This personalized approach ensures
— Remediations and Lookbacks
that we can create, implement and enhance cost-effective
— Compliance Tool Integration and Optimization
and defensible programs best suited for our clients.
— Data Maturity, Modeling, and Validation Assessments
Our services cater to a diverse range of organizations,
including emerging startups, established industry
DECENTRALIZED DUE DILIGENCE FTI Consulting, Inc. 3
Our Services (continued):
Proactive Due Diligence for Maturing Crypto Entities
The rapid development of decentralized technology is Services include:
unprecedented. Adjusting strategies and pivoting to
— Layer-1 Assessments
remain competitive can outpace the implementation of
— Virtual Asset Custody Assessments
new controls and data management techniques. Proactive,
— Governance, Staffing, and Executive Team Assessments
thorough due diligence can improve a company’s roadmap
— Regulatory Compliance Program Roadmaps
with built-in security, regulatory compliance, and best
practices, reducing operational and financial risk as the
company expands.
REPRESENTATIVE ENGAGEMENTS
Layer-1 Partnership Evaluation
A major financial services company sought to gain deeper OUR IMPACT
insights into a blockchain platform they were considering
— Our multifaceted comprehensive report
as a potential partner. This financial institution
meticulously highlighted strengths and areas
understood the critical importance of thorough due
for concern in critical areas such as corporate
diligence in the blockchain and digital asset space,
structure, reputational risk, adverse publicity,
where operational, legal, and reputational factors can
operational risk, governance and regulatory
significantly impact business relationships.
risks. It provided valuable information about
the strengths and potential areas of concern,
OUR ROLE
instilling confidence and allowing the client to
FTI Technology was retained to conduct a comprehensive
assess their partnership opportunity thoroughly.
business intelligence assessment and due diligence of
— Provided the client with crucial data to make
the blockchain platform. The process was thorough,
an informed decision about the viability of
aiming to identify and evaluate potential risks and
the potential partnership. This essential
vulnerabilities associated with their personnel, operations,
data evaluated the long-term potential of a
regulatory compliance, and public perception. The team
partnership, including a comprehensive analysis
also conducted a preliminary analysis of the platform’s
of the platform’s financial health covering sources
relationships with other crypto companies that recently
of wealth, token distribution and potential
faced scrutiny, providing context for the client’s decision-
financial crime exposure.
making process. The due diligence included detailed
evaluations of the following: — Provided the client with a comprehensive
technical and operational risk review and
— Corporate structure and governance
opportunities. Conducted an in-depth evaluation
— Executive backgrounds and responsibilities
of the blockchain performance, including
— Digital media presence
analyzing downtime incidents and their impact
— Industry relationships and partnerships
on token prices.
— Financial health and token economics
— Technical infrastructure and blockchain performance
— Reputational risks
— Threat landscape
— Regulatory compliance and risk management
4 FTI Consulting, Inc. DECENTRALIZED DUE DILIGENCE
CASE STUDY
FORTUNE 500 COMPANY TURNS TO FTI TECHNOLOGY’S BLOCKCHAIN
& DIGITAL ASSETS EXPERTS FOR TECHNICAL AND OPERATIONAL
DUE DILIGENCE IN POTENTIAL CRYPTO ACQUISITION
SITUATION OUR ROLE
Considering acquiring a FTI Technology was retained to OUR IMPACT
cryptocurrency exchange, a Fortune conduct a detailed assessment
500 company asked FTI Technology’s and validation of a cryptocurrency
Blockchain & Digital Assets practice exchange’s maturity regarding
to assess the target’s technical and digital asset holdings, technical
operational aspects. Acquiring a infrastructure and business
company in the cryptocurrency operations. The due diligence Delivered a detailed
space requires specialized expertise included a close evaluation of the report covering the
and careful consideration across following: target company’s current
technical, operational and market — Cryptocurrency operations strengths and gaps. The
factors. Acquiring companies must team also advised the client
— Third-party vendor risk
consider if the target company’s on recommended steps
technical infrastructure is resilient — Assets under custody and necessary to remediate
and meets security, privacy and management gaps, which fully informed
regulatory requirements. Additionally, — Targeted business analysis the client’s dealmaking
they must evaluate assets under decisions and negotiations.
— R&D roadmap
custody and other factors determining
Provided client with a
competitive differentiation and market The team also evaluated additional
competitive business
performance during crypto-specific competitors in the market as potential
roadmap and position in
acquisitions. Without experts who partners and targets for the client to
the market for the various
understand what to look for and how consider as part of its broader digital
options it considered.
to analyze it, these details can be assets strategy.
challenging to determine or measure.
DECENTRALIZED DUE DILIGENCE FTI Consulting, Inc. 5
CASE STUDY
FTI CONSULTING FINANCE AND CRYPTOCURRENCY OUR IMPACT
EXPERTS SUPPORT GALAXY DIGITAL’S $1.2B
ACQUISITION OF BITGO
SITUATION Through a unique understanding
and approach to acquisition due
When Galaxy Digital sought to
Uncovered potential risks to
diligence, the team was able to
acquire an institutional digital
privacy and data security,
quickly deliver technical, data
asset custody, trading, and finance
which were quickly
security and operational assessments
provider, it turned to FTI’s Blockchain
remediated prior to closing
while developing an expedited path
and Digital Assets practice for an
the transaction. Based on
to financial due diligence based
in-depth audit of digital assets,
findings, additional legal
on a deep understanding of how
business models and infrastructure
language was added to the
cryptocurrency businesses monetize.
in support of due diligence activities.
agreement to protect the
With in-depth knowledge of wallets,
In addition to traditional due acquirer.
behavior of cryptocurrency exchanges
diligence in M&A transactions,
Successfully assessed
and the operational hurdles
it is particularly challenging but
strength of digital asset
unique to the world of blockchain,
imperative to fully understand the
technology, supporting
FTI Technology’s experts were able to
landscape of the target company’s
infrastructure and future
design and execute a unique strategy
cryptocurrency assets framework
growth plans for the
to confirm ownership and prove
and business model in order to verify
most impactful product
validity of AUC.
assets under custody (AUC).
development roadmap and
In addition to supporting the client
OUR ROLE continued innovation.
with verifying cryptocurrency assets
FTI Technology’s Blockchain & and infrastructure, the technical Designed and executed a
Digital Assets experts provided assessment included a close look at unique strategy to confirm
the client with a detailed and data privacy and security including ownership of controlled
verified technical audit of the target risk areas that could impact the assets and AUC/assets
company’s cryptocurrency AUC, transaction. Through a detailed risk under management.
technology roadmap, infrastructure, evaluation, the team helped the client
business models and privacy and identify and mitigate all potential
security practices. risks in the acquisition and provided
guidance for remedial actions
throughout the due diligence process.
6 FTI Consulting, Inc. DECENTRALIZED DUE DILIGENCE
Our Experts
STEVE MCNEW MIKE CARTER
Senior Managing Director and Global Lead of the Senior Managing Director
Blockchain & Digital Assets Practice
+1 (917) 557-0765
+1 (936) 232-9994
mike.carter@fticonsulting.com
steve.mcnew@fticonsulting.com
Mike Carter is an expert in digital assets, regulatory
Steven S. McNew is a leading expert in blockchain and compliance, and financial crime investigations. Mr.
cryptocurrency forensics/analytics, enterprise blockchain Carter has extensive experience providing advisory and
implementation, and digital forensics. He has led investigative services for financial crime matters globally,
numerous investigations into claims involving fraud or including leading compliance and risk engagements
misuse of cryptocurrencies, stolen digital assets, and led for Fortune 500 companies, assisting global financial
asset tracing investigations into cases involving Ponzi institutions in investigations of high-risk customers and
schemes and RICO claims in class action lawsuits. He has potentially suspicious transactions, and developing
led bankruptcy, M&A, and strategy assignments in the compliance roadmaps for TradFi and digital asset firms to
cryptocurrency and blockchain sector. Mr. McNew has address risk and regulatory compliance concerns.
offered expert testimony 19 times in the US and Australia,
has authored numerous expert reports and is frequently
published for his thought leadership in industry media.
DECENTRALIZED DUE DILIGENCE FTI Consulting, Inc. 77
Our Experts (continued)
PRESTON FISCHER JESSICA DE BRIGNAC DAVID BRILL
Managing Director Managing Director Managing Director
+1 (214) 213-2458 +1 (646) 453-1244 +1 (917) 923-3800
preston.fischer@fticonsulting.com jessica.debrignac@fticonsulting.com david.brill@fticonsulting.com
Preston Fischer is a digital risk and Jessica de Brignac is a digital risk David Brill was pivotal in shaping
innovation expert with a focus on management and intelligence expert significant milestones within the
blockchain and digital assets. Mr. providing blockchain and digital digital assets industry. As general
Fischer brings more than 20 years of asset advisory services to global counsel for several fintech companies,
experience in emerging technology, clients. She specializes in helping he leveraged his legal expertise and
innovation and digital risk businesses navigate blockchain and background in financial services
management across consultancies, digital asset innovation, risk, and and technology to tackle intricate
technology organizations, and growth opportunities. She supports regulatory, legal, and compliance
public affairs. His expertise helps innovation in emerging technologies, challenges for global organizations and
clients address risk while driving including metaverse adoption startups in the digital assets space.
advancement and includes innovative She brings more than 15 years of
Mr. Brill brings more than two
considerations into web3 and experience solving data-related
decades of experience in law,
metaverse adoption. business challenges, with expertise in
strategy, operations, compliance, and
legal and regulatory matters.
enterprise risk management, honed
across large financial institutions,
international organizations, and
startups. His guidance has been
instrumental in navigating complex
fintech and compliance matters,
intricate litigation, regulatory hurdles,
and mergers and acquisitions.
8 FTI Consulting, Inc. DECENTRALIZED DUE DILIGENCE
About FTI Technology, a Segment of FTI Consulting
FTI Technology solves data-related business challenges, with expertise in legal and regulatory matters.
As data grows in size and complexity, we help organizations better govern, secure, find, analyze and
rapidly make sense of information. Innovative technology, expert services and tenacious problem-
solving provide our global clients with defensible and repeatable solutions. Organizations rely on us to
root out fraud, maintain regulatory compliance, reduce legal and IT costs, protect sensitive materials,
quickly find facts and harness organizational data to create business value. For more information,
please visit www.ftitechnology.com.
DECENTRALIZED DUE DILIGENCE FTI Consulting, Inc. 9
STEVEN S. MCNEW MIKE CARTER
Senior Managing Director Senior Managing Director
+1 (936) 232-9994 +1 (305) 714-4611
steve.mcnew@fticonsulting.com mike.carter@fticonsulting.com
PRESTON FISCHER JESSICA DE BRIGNAC
Managing Director Managing Director
+1 (214) 213-2458 +1 (646) 453-1244
preston.fischer@fticonsulting.com jessica.debrignac@fticonsulting.com
DAVID BRILL
Managing Director
+1 (917) 923-3800
david.brill@fticonsulting.com
FTI Consulting is an independent global business advisory firm dedicated to helping organizations manage change,
mitigate risk and resolve disputes: financial, legal, operational, political & regulatory, reputational and transactional.
FTI Consulting professionals, located in all major business centers throughout the world, work closely with clients to
anticipate, illuminate and overcome complex business challenges and opportunities.
© 2024 FTI Consulting, Inc. All rights reserved. fticonsulting.com