EASY GUIDE TO
FATF STANDARDS
AND M ETHODOLOGY
Vi r t u al Asset s:
Wh at , Wh en , How ?
1
Virtual asset service providers
are a new sector in most
jurisdictions and face significant
money laundering and terrorist
financing risks. The Financial
Action Task Force (FATF) has
taken action to respond to the
very real risk that legitimate
services offered by virtual asset
service providers will be abused
by criminals and terrorists to
launder money and finance
terrorist acts.
Virtual assets are going to be
regulated, like other sectors at
risk of money laundering and
terrorist financing. Now is the
time to discuss implementation
and move forward.
2
FATF FOCUS ON VIRTUAL ASSETS
Blockchain, bitcoin, crypto assets, virtual currencies ... a whole new vocabulary describing innovative
technology to swiftly transfer value around the world. The fast-evolving blockchain and distributed ledger
technologies have the potential to radically change the financial landscape. But, their speed, global reach
and above all - anonymity - also attract those who want to escape authorities? scrutiny. Blockchain
originated just over 10 years ago. Since then, virtual assets have become widely available and have started
to be used as payment products. However, without established regulation and oversight, the sector is often
still referred to as the ?wild west? of the finance industry.
How can criminals misuse virtual assets?
- In 2017 the ?Wannacry? ransomware attack held thousands of computer systems hostage until the
victims paid hackers a ransom in bitcoin. The cost of the attack went far beyond the ransom
payments, it resulted in an estimated USD 8 billion in damages to hospitals, banks and businesses
across the world. Other ransomware attacks have happened since and appear to be on the rise.
3
FATF focus on virt ual asset s
- Virtual assets have many potential benefits. They could make payments easier, faster, and cheaper; and provide
alternative methods for those without access to regular financial products. But without proper regulation, they
risk becoming a virtual safe haven for the financial transactions of criminals and terrorists. The FATF has been
closely monitoring the developments in the cryptosphere and in recent years has seen the first countries start to
regulate the virtual asset sector, while others have prohibited virtual assets altogether. However, as yet, the
majority of countries have not taken any action. These gaps in the global regulatory system have created
significant loopholes for criminals and terrorists to abuse.
- With support from the G20, the FATF has issued global, binding standards to prevent the misuse of virtual assets
for money laundering and terrorist financing. The term ?virtual asset? refers to any digital representation of value
that can be digitally traded, transferred or used for payment. It does not include the digital representation of fiat
currencies. The FATF standards ensure that virtual assets are treated fairly, applying the same safeguards as the
financial sector. FATF?s rules apply when virtual assets are exchanged for fiat currency, but also when they are
transferred from one virtual asset to another.
The FATF Standards: FATF Recommendations
www.fatf-gafi.org/publications/fatfrecommendations/documents/fatf-recommendations.html
FATF Guidance for a Risk-Based Approach to Virtual Assets and Virtual Asset Service
Providers
www.fatf-gafi.org/publications/fatfrecommendations/documents/guidance-rba-virtual-assets.html
Taking effective action
- Countries need to implement the FATF?s measures, and soon. This will ensure transparency of virtual asset
transactions and keep funds with links to crime and terrorism out of the cryptosphere. Today, many virtual asset
service providers are perceived as ?risky business? and denied access to bank accounts and other regular financial
services. While implementing the FATF?s requirements will be challenging for the sector, it will ultimately increase
trust in blockchain technology as the backbone behind a robust and viable means to transfer value. The FATF has
revised its assessment methodology, which sets out how it will determine whether countries have successfully
implemented the FATF Recommendations and are regulating the virtual asset service provider sector.
FATF Methodology for assessing compliance with the FATF Recommendations and the
effectiveness of AML/CFT systems
www.fatf-gafi.org/publications/mutualevaluations/documents/
fatfissuesnewmechanismtostrengthenmoneylaunderingandterroristfinancingcompliance.html
Preparing for the future
- The technology behind virtual assets is fast-moving. Future developments should not create loopholes that
terrorists and criminals can exploit. The FATF will evaluate next steps in June 2020.
Money laundering risks from ?stablecoins? and other emerging assets
www.fatf-gafi.org/publications/fatfgeneral/documents/statement-virtual-assets-global-stablecoins.html
4
How do t he FATF St andards apply?
- The effective global implementation of these standards by all countries will ensure
virtual asset technologies and businesses can continue to grow and innovate in a
responsible way, and it will create a level playing field. It will prevent criminals or
terrorists seeking out and exploiting jurisdictions with weak or no supervision.
Countries need to:
- Understand the money laundering and
terrorist financing risks the sector faces
- License or register virtual asset service
providers
- Supervise the sector, in the same way it
supervises other financial institutions
Virtual asset service providers need to:
- Implement the same preventive
measures as financial institutions,
including customer due diligence, record
keeping and reporting of suspicious
transactions
- Obtain, hold and securely transmit
originator and beneficiary information
when making transfers
5
Where does a VASP need a license
or regist rat ion?
- Country where the company is incorporated ? always / mandatory
- Location of management ? sometimes / optional for countries
- Location of servers / back-office functions ? sometimes / optional for countries
- Countries where you have significant numbers of customers ? sometimes / optional for
countries
Note: VASPs may need licenses or registrations from multiple national authorities if they do business in
several countries
6
Building a part nership
Regulating virtual assets service providers is challenging for everyone. National authorities need
to develop skills to understand the technology involved, while the virtual asset service providers
have to learn about the financial rules that now apply to their sector.
It is up to the sector itself to develop the technology to meet the FATF?s requirements,
particularly when it comes to securely collecting and transmitting originator and beneficiary
information.
To help governments and the industry itself, the FATF has developed a risk-based approach
guidance with significant input from the sector itself. The guidance explains how to understand
the risks, how to license and register the sector, and what the sectors needs to do to know who
their customers are, store this information securely and detect and report suspicious
transactions.
FATF Guidance for a Risk-Based Approach to Virtual Assets and Virtual Asset
Service Providers
www.fatf-gafi.org/publications/fatfrecommendations/documents/guidance-rba-virtual-assets.html
The FATF has engaged intensively with the virtual asset service provider sector to build a
partnership between governments and the sector and better understand the issues and risks
involved, including by hosting annual fintech/regtech forums since 2017.
Through its Contact Group, the FATF continues to further explain the FATF?s requirements to the
industry and to monitor developments and understand how the industry is meeting the various
challenges.
7
Looking ahead...
In light of the rapid development of the range of financial functions served by virtual assets, the FATF will review
countries? and providers? implementation of the requirements applicable to virtual assets and virtual asset service
providers in June 2020.
This will include monitoring the implementation of the new requirements at national level, monitoring virtual asset
service providers? progress in developing technology solutions for securely submitting originator/beneficiary information
between virtual asset service providers when conducting virtual asset transfers and assessing whether further updates
are necessary to ensure the FATF Standards stay relevant and effective.
The FATF has also set up a contact group that will engage industry and monitor industry-led efforts to enhance
compliance with the FATF Standards and better safeguard the international financial system from abuse.
FATF Publicat ions and Useful Links
- The FATF Standards: FATF Recommendations
www.fatf-gafi.org/publications/fatfrecommendations/documents/fatf-recommendations.html
- FATF Guidance for a Risk-Based Approach to Virtual Assets and Virtual Asset Service Providers
www.fatf-gafi.org/publications/fatfrecommendations/documents/guidance-rba-virtual-assets.html
- FATF Methodology for assessing compliance with the FATF Recommendations and the effectiveness of
AML/CFT systems
www.fatf-gafi.org/publications/mutualevaluations/documents/
fatfissuesnewmechanismtostrengthenmoneylaunderingandterroristfinancingcompliance.html
- Money laundering risks from ?stablecoins? and other emerging assets
www.fatf-gafi.org/publications/fatfgeneral/documents/statement-virtual-assets-global-stablecoins.html
- FATF dedicated webpage on Virtual Assets
www.fatf-gafi.org/publications/virtualassets/documents/virtual-assets.html?hf=10&b=0&s=desc(fatf_releasedate)
For More Information
Have you subscribed to the FATF
Business Bulletin?
If not, sign up now via the FATF
www.fatf-gafi.org
public website
8
Contact@fatf-gafi.org