Token due diligence:
a structured approach
to evaluate digital
asset risk
February 2024
Table of contents
1. General token due diligence framework: a primer 3
2. Reputational and strategic 4
2.1 People and entity risk 4
3. Technical 4
3.1 Network design 4
3.1.1 Decentralization 6
3.1.2 Bridging 6
3.1.3 Blockchain architecture 6
3.1.4 Governance 6
3.2 Smart contract 7
3.3 Maintenance and upgrades 8
3.3.1 Layer-1 protocols 9
3.3.2 Decentralized applications 9
4. Financial 9
4.1 Tokenomics 10
4.1.1 Layer-1 protocols 10
4.1.2 Decentralized autonomous organizations (DAOs) 10
4.2 Financial metrics and ratio analyses 11
4.2.1 Layer-1 protocols 11
4.2.2 Decentralized autonomous organizations (DAOs) 12
5. Legal and compliance 12
5.1 Securities analysis 12
6. Cybersecurity 13
6.1 Governance and operational security 13
7. Auditability 14
7.1 Auditability and ownership 14
8. Summary 15
9. How we can help 15
Token due diligence: a structured approach to evaluate digital asset risk 2
Introduction
With more than 10,000 digital asset tokens tracked by CoinGecko in circulation, it may be difficult to
ascertain quality from noise, memetic from consequential and groupthink from adoption. Though it may
be likely that many of these tokens currently provide no tangible value to holders aside from a form
of speculation and community engagement, a small subset may revolutionize the world as innovative
disintermediation tools with robust value capture. The purpose of this framework is to provide a
methodology when assessing exposure to tokens.
1. General token due diligence framework: a primer We apply both technical and nontechnical lenses to this
framework primarily to remain party agnostic but also
A general risk framework to evaluate tokens can be
because decentralized finance (DeFi), in its current state,
organized in a multitude of ways. Some crypto-native
is both technologically sophisticated and regulatorily
firms have produced publicly available frameworks; some
immature. Therefore, risk disclosures prevalent in
regulatory bodies, such as the New York State Department
regulated consumer financial products generally are absent
of Financial Services, are known to require coin-listing
in cryptocurrencies. A sufficient mix of technological due
policies to meet rigorous standards; and other market
diligence and research on external project factors must be
participants presumably have privately held approaches
conducted for proper baseline coverage.
for assessing tokens. Each of these players has its
own risk tolerance thresholds, driven by internal risk This framework is not all-encompassing, nor will we touch
management appetite, specific to an industry, or sector, on all sub-risk categories in this paper, but it should provide
and business model. As such, we have developed a token the reader with a preliminary framework that can be
risk assessment framework that attempts to remain party further built upon as the industry continues to evolve.
agnostic and should be of interest to any entity interested
in further assessing token risks.
For this paper, we define the following six risk pillars as a
general representation of our methodology: reputational
and strategic, technical, financial, legal and compliance,
cybersecurity, and auditability. We will dive into several
sub-risk categories for each pillar, as noted in the table
below in bold.
Reputational and Technical Financial Legal and Cybersecurity Auditability
strategic compliance
• People and • Network design • Tokenomics • Securities • Governance • Audit and
entity analysis and operational ownership
• Smart contract • Financial
security
• Environmental, risk metrics and • Compliance
social and ratio analyses
• Upgrades and • Illicit or criminal
governance
maintenance • Treasury activity
(ESG)
management
Token due diligence: a structured approach to evaluate digital asset risk 3
2. Reputational and strategic of their anonymity, protocols with anonymous founders
2.1 People and entity risk can be very difficult to hold accountable. Although there
appears to be a relationship between success of a project
While it may be common to suggest that autonomous
and non-anonymous founders, this does not implicitly
code will control the future of on-chain transactions, the
suggest a deterministic link. It is therefore imperative to
participants behind the code at the social layer often have
use judgment when incorporating this evaluation into a
an immense impact and are commonly overlooked. A
due diligence review. It is likely more appropriate to use
foundational consideration for a token is whether the core
this criterion as a means of gaining comfort that there
team members have elected to operate as anonymous or
is a single individual (or group of individuals) who can be
as public figures. Often, linking one’s real-life identity to
assigned accountability. They have chosen to put their skin
on-chain activity can bring credibility and legitimacy to a
in the game by staking their reputations on the success of
project. However, teams often decide to build anonymously
the protocol and assume the risk of any nefarious activity.
for a variety of reasons, including regulatory risk, personal
privacy and reputational risk.
3. Technical
Teams that build with non-anonymous founders have 3.1 Network design
demonstrated high levels of accountability and success.
The design of the underlying Layer-1 (L1) blockchain
Ethereum, Solana, Uniswap, Maker, Aave and Compound
network is the basis in which any application-level token
are examples of projects with public founders that have
must operate and dictates the conditions in which the
sustained billions of dollars in total value deposited into
native cryptocurrency blockchain settles transactions.
the protocols they have built. These projects have built
Therefore, several decisions are made based on the use
great user experiences and generated revenue over the
case of the network itself. These decisions often represent
last two years.1 Even during bouts of high market volatility
an attempt to solve the blockchain trilemma of optimizing
and an extended “crypto winter,” these projects have
a network’s scalability, decentralization and security.
demonstrated talent retention, community engagement
Generally, projects choose to focus on two out of three
and continuity in building new products. When considering
based on the goal of the network itself. For example, a
initial or even follow-on funding rounds to finance
project intended to have higher throughput and lower
operations, establishing relationships with accountable,
transaction fees on its network may choose to optimize for
public leadership may help assuage investor concerns
scalability and security at the expense of decentralization
and allow for greater interoperations between portfolio
by relying on a small set of validators nodes that run
companies and that entity. On the other hand, however,
expensive or specialized hardware.
some public founders are known to have experienced major
What degree of decentralization is enough for censorship
faults in execution. These founders typically did not launch
resistance? This is a difficult question to answer, as it
decentralized networks or projects, but rather used a token
cuts at the purpose of public blockchains in general:
launch to market their centralized lending platform or
a censorship-resistant, credibly neutral, decentralized
exchange. Using their public credibility may have allowed
platform open to all. Without these properties, the value
these entities to increase leverage or misappropriate funds
proposition of public blockchains is far less compelling,
using their centralized company and token as an opaque
and what remains is a centralized and computationally
layer sitting above the underlying problems.
inefficient database. Therefore, maintaining a high level
Comparatively, anonymous founders have demonstrated of decentralization is mandatory to protect against the
more mixed track records. Satoshi Nakamoto has been risk of censorship at the network level.
the most successful anonymous founder to date in
Balaji Srinivasan attempted to measure decentralization
terms of token market cap, but Satoshi may be the
by proposing the Nakamoto Coefficient, a quantitative
exception rather than the rule. There have been a slew
measure of a system’s decentralization, motivated by
of application layer protocols, with anonymous founders
the well-known Gini Coefficient and Lorenz Curve.2 The
or core team members, that have not ended well for
Nakamoto Coefficient represents the number of validators
investors. Potential fraudulent behavior aside, by nature
Token due diligence: a structured approach to evaluate digital asset risk 4
Graph - 3.1
Nakamoto Coefficient vs. total validators
Nakamoto coefficiant vs. total validators
30 2,000
28
1,734
25
1,627 1,500
22
20 AVALANCHE
TERRA 1,000
15
SOLANA
11 POLYGON 500
10
7 135 100
130
74
0
5 47 6 6
3
0 -500
Figure 1 : Nakamoto Coefficient among L1 protocols as of 2022.
Figure 2: Subsystems of blockchains
5
tneicfifeoC
otomakaN
srotadilav
fo
rebmuN
(nodes) that would have to collude together with malicious
Subsystem Centralization Definition
intent to impact the safety or liveness of the blockchain
metric
via invalid state transitions, distributed denial of service
(DDOS) or block reorgs.3 Mining Block reward Measures distribution of the block
subsystem reward over 24 hours
On the surface, this may seem like a trivial exercise if you
know the method of consensus and a few other public data
Client Codebase Measures the distribution of client
points; however, Srinivasan expands on this calculation subsystem implementations (e.g., GETH vs.
Parity)
by considering several components of centralization that
are measured at what he calls the “subsystem” level.
Developers Commit Measures the number of
These subsystems represent components of a public subsystem engineers who have made
blockchain ecosystem that can potentially compromise commits
decentralization of a public Layer 1 network. If one
Exchange Volume Measures the volume traded
of these subsystems is found to be centralized, then
subsystem across multiple exchanges
an argument can be made that the entire system is
centralized. Therefore, determining which subsystems Node Count Measures node distribution across
subsystem countries
are critical to a Layer 1 network must be a key
consideration when attempting to calculate the
Ownership Address Measures the number of unique
Nakamoto Coefficient using this methodology.
subsystem addresses that contain an
amount of the asset between
a predetermined threshold
Token due diligence: a structured approach to evaluate digital asset risk
3.1.1 Decentralization The attacker bypassed the verification process of the
Wormhole Bridge on Solana and successfully generated
The higher the Nakamoto Coefficient relative to the
a malicious message that specified 120,000 Wormhole
total number of validators, the lower the risk of collusion
ETH (wETH) to be minted.5 The attacker then transferred
disrupting a decentralized blockchain. Avalanche and
93,750 wETH back to Ethereum, which resulted in the
Solana demonstrate higher levels of decentralization based
same amount of wETH on Solana unbacked. This event
on the Nakamoto Coefficient than the more centralized
introduced a level of systemic cross-chain risk that required
chains in the lower right quadrant, such as Polygon or
a significant capital injection from Wormhole’s parent
BNB Chain. Centralization can lead to a higher risk of
company as a backstop.6
collusion at the validator level, allowing invalid blocks
to be published or censorship in the case scenario. In
3.1.3 Architecture
proof of stake chains, networks also run the risk of less
Additional risk considerations related to network design
than two-thirds of validators (either total validator nodes
can also include a review of the blockchain’s architecture.
or combined stake weight) online at any given time,
For example, the concept of modular vs. monolithic
which can lead to forks and deep block reorgs as nodes
blockchains can have a significant impact on scalability and
struggle to reach consensus and finality. Centralization
security. The concept of modularity is important because it
can compromise credible neutrality as in the case of BNB
allows blockchain networks to outsource certain activities
Chain, where a proof of authority version of Tendermint’s
that are performed traditionally in monolithic blockchains,
consensus framework allows for only 21 active validators.
including consensus, data availability, execution and
In October 2022, a malicious actor was able to steal
settlement. Ethereum’s commitment to modular
$100 million in BNB, the chain’s native cryptocurrency.
architecture principles is seen in its proto-danksharding
The attack was ultimately hindered due to the validators’
roadmap. Ethereum’s progressively modular design will
ability to coordinate, identify the attack and halt the
allow it to enhance its ecosystem’s economic security by
network, restricting the hacker’s ability to move the assets
ensuring settlement will always happen at the Ethereum
elsewhere. Although a case can be made that the viability
base layer. Overall, a robust architecture will increase
of the network was saved due to its centralization, its
security and provide more flexibility in design.
credible neutrality is unclear, which could introduce risk
to token holders.
3.1.4 Governance
3.1.2 Bridging Governance is also a risk to holders of both tokens issued
through smart contracts or base cryptocurrencies
In addition, there are other technical design risks, aside
(ETH / Bitcoin). Governance is generally designed into
from collusion at the consensus level, that blockchain
the operation of the network or decentralized application
protocols must contend with. Much of the L1 ecosystem
through the implementation of an economic coordination
today is built on cross-chain activity. Many users rely on
layer. Through governance processes, token holders are
bridges from Ethereum to move assets back and forth
able to coordinate efforts to change, update and protect
by passing inter-blockchain messages. As bridges are
the network. In 2022, Juno protocol, part of the Cosmos
inherently less secure due to reliance on more centralized
(ATOM) network, identified a prospective Sybil attack
security models, there are obvious trade-offs to make when
and began pre-emptively preparing for it as the token
bridging assets cross-chain. For example, holding non-
generation event (TGE) neared.7 The Juno attacker created
native tokens from one blockchain on another blockchain
50 wallets with 50,000 ATOM tokens, each entitling the
(such as wrapped bitcoin) incurs several risks of exploit,
attacker to 2.5m Juno tokens initially and more than 3m
assuming these ecosystems do not share a common
after staking rewards. The attacker’s actions broke the
settlement layer.4
intent of the airdrop rules that stipulated a maximum of
As an example, the Wormhole Bridge was exploited
50,000 Juno tokens per 50,000 ATOM tokens. The Juno
for 120,000 ETH. When ETH tokens are bridged from
community took time to deal with the issue, which led to
Ethereum to Solana via Wormhole, they are locked in a
a contentious governance vote that split the community
contract on Ethereum and subsequently minted on Solana.
between those who felt the Juno tokens should be
Token due diligence: a structured approach to evaluate digital asset risk 6
confiscated from the attacker’s account vs. those The majority of Ethereum contracts are written in Solidity
who believed the mistake should not be remedied. or Vyper, with Solidity commanding the lion’s share of
development activity.10 Solidity was designed to be simple
In a precedent-setting vote, the community passed
and easy to use with many influences from C++, Python
Proposal 16, which confiscated a single individual’s
and JavaScript.11 There are robust, public smart contract
wealth by performing a hard fork to rewrite the state
libraries, testing frameworks, tooling and community
of the network’s ledger. Although the action was taken
support because of the Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM)
for seemingly altruistic purposes, many consider this a
network effect. Solidity has known vulnerabilities as well
blight on credible neutrality of public blockchains. On one
and should not be considered “risk free” based on its
hand, the attacker in this case did not take advantage of
dominance alone.12 In fact, hacks, bugs and other exploits
a technical exploit; rather, they took advantage of a social
are an ongoing issue despite the ubiquity and transparency
exploit based on publicly available information. On the
of smart contracts written in Solidity. Using tools to review
other hand, this event represented a near-existential risk
smart contracts can be an efficient way to leverage the
for the protocol and the vote was put up to the community.
wisdom of the crowd and capitalize on the network effects
In either case, all players were aware of the risks involved
mentioned above. The EY Smart Contract Review Tool
and potential outcomes, and the community voted to
(SCRT) has already been used successfully in this manner
protect itself. When considering governance, it is vital to
because the SCRT not only is designed to run tests against
research the following: Who has the most say (often, the
a library of commonly known exploits but also offers
most tokens)? Does a vote actually result in action being
customizable functionality that allows testing against
taken by the team? What controls are in place to combat
“what-if” scenarios. Figure 3 displays several examples
governance attacks?
of exploits on EVM (including non-Ethereum) chains.
3.2 Smart contract risk
One common type of exploit is a flash loan exploit. A flash
A smart contract is a self-executing digital agreement loan allows any participant to borrow a significant amount
that enables two or more parties to exchange anything of undercollateralized capital if it is returned within the
of value in a transparent way without the need for same transaction block that the loan originated in. Flash
custodial intermediation.8 Smart contracts have become loans showcase the power of DeFi composability. They
a powerful way to build DeFi-integrated products through democratize access to arbitrage opportunities and facilitate
disintermediation and composability, allowing contracts folded leverage transactions and seamless collateral
to interact with one another. Ethereum is the most widely swapping. Since flash loans must be repaid within the
used (by total value locked (TVL)) general-purpose smart same transaction, the cost of borrowing is only the cost
contract blockchain with 63.1% of TVL in DeFi applications of computation (gas). If the loan is not repaid, the entire
out of all L1 blockchains as of October 2023.9 transaction reverts.13
Protocol Dollars (in millions) Date Exploit Chain
Harmony $100.0 6/24/2022 OpSec Harmony
GYM $2.1 6/10/2022 Smart contract exploit BNB
DEUS DAO $13.7 4/28/2022 Blockchain oracles Ethereum
Beanstalk $182.0 4/18/2022 Flash loan Ethereum
Inverse Finance $16.0 4/2/2022 Oracle Ethereum
Ronin $625.0 3/29/2022 Sybil Ronin
Figure 3: EVM chain hacks
Token due diligence: a structured approach to evaluate digital asset risk 7
Flash loans are not inherently nefarious; however, they 3.3 Maintenance and upgrades
can be used to facilitate technically complex manipulations
Despite what a token is designed to do, there will always
through traditional blockchain infrastructure that can
be the question: Who will maintain and upgrade the
be motivated by malicious intent. As an example, a flash
codebase?
loan exploit occurred when a malicious entity, via smart
At the blockchain level, independent organizations, such
contract, borrowed a significant sum of capital from a
as the Ethereum Foundation, fund active research and
lending protocol that was then used to manipulate market
development of the core protocol specifications to be
pricing, causing an artificial arbitrage opportunity. This,
implemented by execution and consensus layer client
in turn, allowed the user to accumulate a large amount
teams. The research team is composed of experts in
of a single token and conduct a Sybil attack on protocol
computer science and cryptography. As an example,
governance, which allowed it to push a nefarious proposal
EIP–1559 introduced a transaction-pricing mechanism
through formal governance channels. This resulted in the
called the base fee. As a function of past block demand,
entity’s ability to drain the token’s primary liquidity pool
the base fee adjusts gradually to help smooth expected
and then repay the loan all in the same transaction, netting
transaction fees on Ethereum and is subsequently burned
$186 million in profits.14
from total supply. Concurrent to the base fee adjusting,
Other smart contract risks include unaudited codebases.
Ethereum block sizes adjust to allow greater throughput
Companies, such as Trail of Bits, provide smart contract
during periods of high block demand, resulting in the base
auditing services that review contract code for flaws
fee increasing to dissuade marginal transactors via higher
and return a report that can be posted on the protocol’s
costs to promote an equilibrium. EIP–1559 took about two
website to demonstrate transparency. However, not
years to implement from its initial code repository creation
all protocols use auditing services, and not all auditing
due to the robustness of the EIP implementation process.15
services are the same. Additionally, the availability of a
The key components regarding protocol maintenance are
report does not necessarily indicate a “seal of approval”
twofold. First, the level of transparency in governance
or represent a form of assurance in the same way an audit
processes is vital. More transparency provides the
opinion does. In most cases, reports will identify code flaws
public more opportunity to weigh in on, scrutinize and
and provide remediation activities, but there is no simple
advocate for changes that the community aligns with.
mechanism to ensure that all items have been addressed
In more mature environments, such as Ethereum, the
by the project team short of monitoring future code
risk of malicious code making its way into production is
commits through a code repository.
significantly less due to the amount of visibility inherent
Even with audited codebases, it is important to consider
to the EIP governance processes and amount of Ethereum
vulnerabilities in popular code libraries, especially from
community engagement in vetting proposal concepts and
newer chains. In 2022, a vector vulnerability in the
source code. The same cannot be said for most newer
Solana Program Library, a repository of many code
protocols that do not have the commensurate levels of
implementations for specific programs and functions, could
engagement. Therefore, it is imperative to scrutinize token
have allowed exploiters to drain the entire TVL of several
governance processes to understand the level of activity,
protocols. The vulnerability was present due to a rounding
the major players and personalities, and the concentration
error through which users could have continuously
of voting power. And second, transparency of source code
deposited and withdrawn funds until several DeFi protocols
provides an easy way to determine whether a protocol is
were drained, thus making a profit from the rounding error,
using public, battle-tested code libraries.
minus Solana network fees which are, by design, very
low. Notably, this attack would not have been feasible
on Ethereum due to higher transaction fees as a means
of Sybil resistance.
Token due diligence: a structured approach to evaluate digital asset risk 8
3.3.1 Layer-1 protocols an important way for DAOs to develop new products that
fit the community’s needs. Therefore, for both paying its
Many L1 protocols are not yet sufficiently decentralized,
employees and the community, a sizable cash runway is
and project teams often have direct control over software
near mandatory for protocol longevity until it may be self-
upgrades and business development. Typically, these
sustaining based on positive cash flow.
protocols have a form of limited on-chain governance
abilities. This can be considered higher-risk protocol Bull markets tend to coincide with significant speculation
management because it allows for unilateral decision- on governance token prices, which are another medium
making. By maintaining a centralized development team, for DAOs to incentivize participation from the community.
the broader community is unable to develop organically, Though impossible to foretell, token price can serve as
and community input may be overlooked. Organic a barometer for the marginal new user or speculator in
community development has a strong correlation to a reflexive manner. Token incentives for the more
economic sustainability due to the formation of a social speculative may be an attractor for greater development
consensus around values-based Schelling points instead of and community engagement, but not to such a degree
monetary considerations. Inorganic communities collapse that token supply is concentrated in a small number of
as they coordinate around the speculative returns of the insiders’ wallets.
native token, the Terra Luna saga being the prime example.
While governance may appear to be decentralized and
It is, however, unlikely that many projects start from a
effective for certain decentralized applications and
fully decentralized model. A measure of centralization is
communities, patterns of behavior would suggest that
often required to initially bootstrap activity and coordinate
governance is as robust as the core team’s credibility
efficient decision-making, which is critical in early-stage
and track record. Naturally, when a community believes
protocol development. The important factor to take
it passed a vote, one must consider whether the core
into consideration here is whether the project team has
members, who often hold the authority to enforce that
publicly released a project roadmap with a clear path to
vote, will follow through with the action.
decentralization, and if the team has followed its roadmap.
4. Financial
3.3.2 Decentralized applications
Financial analysis is a core component when considering
At the application layer, in most cases, development
the viability of a token. As with any currency, in-game
activities are managed by a combination of community
item or revenue-generating entity, a protocol’s token
decentralized autonomous organizations (DAOs) and core
must provide a reasonable inflation or deflation rate,
developer teams. DAOs typically set community funds
utility in some way, and some sort of value capture.
aside for this purpose from the token generation event to
Tokenomics are the economics of the token, and the
compensate their developers. In addition, DAOs often fund
concept generally encompasses token supply, emissions
further protocol development and community engagement
schedule, distribution, lockups, vesting, staking rewards
through grant programs or liquidity incentives.16 On-chain
and other incentives, including burning, vote locking and
DAO governance proposals can be used to implement
more.17 As tokenomics are based on a combination of
protocol changes as needed. DAOs give token holders
the preceding factors, they naturally can come in many
varying degrees of governance rights to vote on and
combinations that can significantly impact the token’s
implement changes executed by a governance smart
price over the medium to long term.
contract.
In addition to tokenomics, a token can be evaluated based
To subsidize community involvement similar to a project
on a few key metrics, such as market cap, fully diluted
manager or product developer, DAOs may offer monetary
value (FDV), circulating supply, revenue per token and
incentives in a consulting-like capacity for those in the
TVL. Using these metrics to perform ratio analyses,
community engaging with the protocol developers.
such as FDV to TVL, can create a benchmark KPI to cut
Outsourcing certain roles to the community, especially
through the token supply and evaluate a protocol on the
when the community owns the governance tokens, can be
Token due diligence: a structured approach to evaluate digital asset risk 9
economic activity and utility supporting its valuation. L1 protocols can also use experimental economic design
When considering TVL, however, it is important to consider mechanisms as part of their tokenomics. Terra was
whether there is a corresponding burn, buyback or profit unique in that an algorithmic stablecoin was embedded
distribution from the TVL. Uniswap, for example, has a into the protocol design. The native cryptocurrency,
high TVL, but all “revenues” flow back to liquidity providers Luna, was designed to algorithmically back the stablecoin
rather than anyone holding the UNI token. US Terra (UST). To mint UST, an equal amount of Luna
would be burned.21 One UST could always be minted for
4.1 Tokenomics
$1 worth of Luna, making arbitrageurs profitable as this
4.1.1 Layer-1 protocols
incentivized peg maintenance of UST to $1. This protocol
L1 blockchains have varying degrees of tokenomic design design proved to be catastrophic. Terra collapsed under
mechanisms. For example, a proof of work chain, such a reflexive negative spiral as UST holders lost faith and
as bitcoin (BTC), rewards miners 6.25 BTC plus fees per sold UST either for other stablecoins or minted Luna to
block mined as of October 2022.18 Miners compete to later sell, causing other more-leveraged Luna traders to
solve the nonce per varying algorithmic difficulties, and sell via forced liquidations. In essence, the market cap of
the winner has the right to propose the next block on Luna (along with an accrued treasury or retained earnings)
the longest chain. Bitcoin has a hard cap of 21 million should have always been greater than the value of UST
coins and reduces block rewards about every four years to backstop the peg, which is difficult for a free-floating
until the hard cap is reached in 2140. Other L1 chains, and highly volatile cryptocurrency. In the aftermath, it
such as Ethereum proof of stake, reward validators for was clear that the asset/liability mismatch was not well
participating in consensus by attesting to the validity of understood by most participants in the crypto community.
a block (enforcing the fork choice rule) and proposing
4.1.2 Decentralized autonomous organizations (DAOs)
blocks.19 While Ethereum does not have a hard cap in total
token supply, the transition to proof of stake combined DAOs provide a vastly different value profile than an L1
with EIP–1559 has resulted in ETH becoming a deflationary blockchain. Whereas L1 blockchains give users a storage
asset as more ETH is burned per transaction than issued.20 and computation engine, DAOs can deliver any form of
From the perspective of risk and protocol viability, a token value to their users, including gaming, DeFi, art and more.
holder should not exclusively interpret whether an asset L1 blockchains often have a more visible and endogenous
is net inflationary or deflationary as positive or negative; revenue capture model as well, allowing fees that users
rather, the token holder should assess the mechanisms pay to the network to flow to the computers that execute
that are used to achieve either status, such as token burns transactions and agree on the latest state. DAO tokens, on
from revenue or the impact of inflation on trading order the other hand, may appear more related to community
books. For example, if ETH reduced its inflation rate by memberships or decentralized business entities and need
90%, from about 4% to about 0.4%, all else equal, there to exhibit utility and revenue capture. When it comes to
is 90%, less daily sell pressure due to inflation reduction. utility, the choices are manifold. As examples, some DAOs
Further, the transition from proof of work to proof of stake may require the token to enter its game, to own the token
reduced mandatory sell pressure, as fiat-based mining to provide first-loss capital in lending or insurance to earn
costs covered via ETH sales are no longer required. fees or more token supply, or to simply vote on where DAO
treasury money may be spent to grow the community. In
many circumstances, there may be value for an individual
to own the token, but tangible value on a market level may
not be present.
Token due diligence: a structured approach to evaluate digital asset risk 10
As such, in 2022, most governance tokens were down buybacks and burns” to buy existing supply and then burn
more than 90% and continue to have major dilutive it in an attempt to boost price. When researching DAOs,
issuance with low floating supply and high FDVs. Figure users should understand how total supply will change
4 exemplifies Solana ecosystem tokens that are widely over time and how the DAO generates revenues to fund
reported to have low-circulating supply and high inflation. operations and token purchases. While there are a variety
And further, it can be difficult for DAOs to gain tangible of different supply models, such as vote-escrowed and
value due to prevailing securities laws, where venture protocol-owned liquidity, it is possible those mechanisms
capital may be less likely to fund a DAO that distributes provide more volatility due to lower-circulating supply
earnings to its token holders due to difficulty in providing rather than tangible underlying value, despite arguments
clarity that the token is not a security. To work around cash suggesting that higher vote weight (and thus inflation
flow distribution, some communities have voted on “token weight) is beneficial for all token holders.
Asset Price Market cap FDV Market TVL FDV/TVL ATH % of ATH Cash flow to
(in millions) (in millions) cap/FDV (in millions) holders Y/N
SOL $13.41 $4,882 $4,882 100% $312 15.6 $259.6 -94.8% Y
(no max supply) (no max supply)
MNGO $0.01 $26 $71 23% HACKED HACKED $0.5 -97.2% N
SRM $0.27 $100 $2,761 4% $1 2,761.0 $13.8 -98.0% Y
RAY $0.19 $29 $105 28% $50 2.1 $16.8 -98.9% Y
TULIP $1.30 $2 $12 16% $23 0.5 $50.2 -97.4% N
SLND $0.41 $12 $42 29% $30 1.4 $16.7 -97.5% N
SBR $0.001 $2 $13 12% $25 0.5 $1.0 -99.9% N
Figure 4: Solana ecosystem tokens
Sources: CoinGecko, DefiLlama. Data as of 17 November 2022.
4.2 Financial metrics and ratio analyses strong indicator of user adoption, usage and demand for
4.2.1 Layer-1 protocols blockspace. For example, a protocol with 100% inflation
and 1% fees (as a percentage of market cap) has a far
L1 protocols may have a more universal model, at least
different market dynamic than a protocol with 0% inflation
for monolithic chains, than other tokens. For L1s, revenue
and 4% fees, all else equal. When considering financial
is produced when users transact on the platform and
metrics and ratios, protocol revenue (R), market cap to
pay fees. Fees may be in computation, storage, verifying
revenue (MC/R), stock to flow (S2F) and staking yield
proofs, verifying data availability or any combination.
are helpful metrics. Because stakers tend to receive all
For modular chains, the greater the usage volume, the
fees and inflation, any non-staker will be debased due
greater the revenue, all other things being equal. Where
to inflation and will have an opportunity cost in fees and
fees flow is arguably even more important, which dictates
inflation forgone. Therefore, the marginal staker will
who receives fees and inflation on the protocol. Some L1s
receive their share of the total market cap multiplied by
may distribute all fees to stakers, whereas some may take
inflation and fees as a percentage of market cap.
a percentage for their own treasury in a more for-profit
manner. The relation between fees and inflation is also a
Token due diligence: a structured approach to evaluate digital asset risk 11
Example: User X holds Token Y at $1b market cap and 5. Legal and compliance
holds 50% of all stake, 10% is staked, and there is 5% 5.1 Securities analysis
inflation + fees. User X holds $1b * 10% * 50% = $50m
Is it a security? This is a question that has been repeated
of Token Y. User X’s $50m stake is entitled to $1b * 5%
ad nauseum since cryptocurrencies hit the mainstream and
inflation + fees * 50% stake = $25m, or a 50% annual
one that has yet to be sufficiently resolved. In 2018, then
return from inflation and fees.
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Chairman
Other financial metrics may include TVL to market cap, Jay Clayton provided some clarity to this question by
total transactions and transaction volume. However, drawing a distinction between cryptocurrencies that seek
there is not a direct link between any of those and yield to replace sovereign currencies and those that represent
for stakers across protocols. One protocol may have low an investment in a common enterprise: 22 the former not
transactions but high fee value; some high transaction- being considered a security and the latter being considered
volume protocols may have negligible fees and may not a security. This characterization drew a direct connection
even flow in full to stakers. Hence, each L1 protocol should to the Howey Test, which is the pre-eminent framework
warrant its own analysis, but consideration should be given for assessing whether an asset constitutes a security as
on how to accrue protocol revenue and the breakdown defined in the US Securities Act of 1933. Even though
between fees and inflation. much has changed since 2018, applying the Howey Test
is still the main way to assess all different types of digital
4.2.2 Decentralized Autonomous Organizations (DAOs)
assets from a securities perspective. However, there is
DAOs may generate revenue when users interact with their increasing pushback from major crypto players that the
smart contracts, in-game items and more. It is entirely Howey Test, as it is currently defined, is not nuanced
DAO dependent, but each respective subsector (DeFi, enough to account for factors such as decentralization
gaming, art) tends to have its own drivers. For DeFi, TVL with regard to definitions such as “common enterprise.”
tends to be a strong correlative metric, but only if the TVL In general, though, a broad application of the Howey
has a percentage of either TVL or yield that flows back to Test can be considered as a tool for providing baseline
the token holder or token-guided treasury. For gaming, considerations when attempting to determine whether a
it could be a blend of active users, revenue from in-game cryptocurrency should be classified as a security.
activities, whether the DAO made a blockchain, whether a
Forman, 421 U.S. at 853, states that “… holding that
DAO has a treasury earning yield, and whether there are
a security does not exist ‘where [a consumer] purchases
in-game advertisements. Art can be similar but relies more
a commodity for personal consumption or living quarters
on primary issuance of new non-fungible tokens (NFTs) and
for personal use.’”
royalty fees from secondary market volume. There may be
These distinctions, while subtle, begin to draw a line
partnerships with metaverses or games as well. In addition,
around what type of tokens are more like securities than
total supply, especially floating supply to total, is key for
others. For example, tokens such as ETH (at this time, not
assessing the dilutive path of token issuance over time. For
considered a security by the SEC) that aim to act as a store
DAOs, how revenue is generated; where it flows; and the
of value, medium of exchange, unit of account, provider
underlying sustainability of its userbase, fees and supply
of economic security and metering token for computation
are of utmost importance.
on Ethereum have practical uses that may transcend
speculation or expectation of profits for holders. However,
Gary Gensler, current Chairperson of the SEC, has proven
to be much more hawkish in his classification of digital
assets, hinting in public statements this his goal will be to
treat almost all digital assets, including cryptocurrencies,
stablecoins and NFTs, like securities. Under his leadership,
Token due diligence: a structured approach to evaluate digital asset risk 12
the SEC has also primarily applied a regulate by large pre-sale token allocations, and community members
enforcement strategy rather than rulemaking specific to all who are reliant on increasing liquidity to actualize
digital assets. This approach appears to be based in part the profits they have been promised. The result usually
on prepared remarks he provided in April 2022, where ending with non-insiders experiencing significant loss as
he noted the SEC should remain technology neutral in exit liquidity for those who were most vocal about the
its application of securities law. Gensler doubled down in potential for making profits. It is therefore important to
May of 2023 23 during his keynote speech at the Atlanta pay attention to how the project team conducts itself in
Financial Markets Conference where he is quoted as saying public forums such as social media and other community
the “rules have been published” insinuating that his SEC’s engagement platforms and the size and recipients of
position on securities will not adapt to accommodate pre-sale token allocations whether directly through
assets deployed on decentralized networks, but stands token issuance or indirectly through token allocations
ready to support crypto natives’ path to compliance under to marketing budgets. It is pragmatic to avoid tokens or
the existing regulatory framework. This approach has led projects that provide large token allocations to founders
to a myriad of court cases (the SEC has engaged over or consultants or explicitly market outsized returns or
100 enforcement actions today) that have led to guarantees of a token’s future value accrual without a clear
conflicting guidance as to how digital assets fit under the business model and technological roadmap that supports
Howey Test. Most notably, in July of 2023, courts ruled the numbers. The old adage of “if it sounds too good to
in favor of Ripple Labs by affirming that the company be true, it probably is” still rings true in cryptocurrency
did not violate securities law by selling its XRP token on markets.
a public exchange. The judge acknowledged that those
While regulators in the US still grapple with the regulatory
sales constituted blind bid/ask transactions — a notable
question, their counterparts in the European Union have
win for the crypto industry, albeit one that came with
been working hard to implement a set of rules for the
a large and confusing caveat. In the same ruling, the
crypto industry. EU regulators established the digital asset
courts also found that Ripple’s $728.9 million sale of
specific regulation, Markets in Crypto-Assets (MiCA), with
XRP to hedge funds and other sophisticated buyers did
the intended purpose of creating a unified set of crypto
constitute a sale of unregistered securities, the nuance
rules that can be applied to various crypto assets and
being that Ripple’s marketing efforts to these buyers made
their related activities and services. The success of this
it clear that the “company was pitching a speculative
regulation could provide a framework for other countries
value proposition,” one that was dependent on the efforts
to use, which could lead to the export of these rules to
of the company to build and develop the blockchain
other jurisdictions.
infrastructure that supported the XRP token.24 This
ruling highlights an important point for both retail and
institutional investors when assessing legal or regulatory
compliance risk using the Howey Test; that you must pay
attention to how cryptocurrencies are marketed. This is
a prong of the Howey Test that is still very relevant and
can be used to identify potential red flags. In this era
of instant communications via social media and other
communications apps, it is all too common that project
teams will publicly advertise unrealistic returns predicated
on future token functionality or systems of value accrual
that requires further development. These messages are
very often amplified and propagated by paid advertisers
who do not disclose their monetary stake, insiders with
Token due diligence: a structured approach to evaluate digital asset risk 13
6. Cybersecurity Take, for example, the Compound Finance smart contract
6.1 Governance and operational security exploit that occurred in October 2021. A malicious actor
discovered a vulnerability in the Compound Comptroller
Understanding the governance processes and operational
contract, which is the risk management layer of the
security hygiene of teams building on and supporting both
Compound protocol and controls the token market interest
L1 networks and the smart contracts deployed on top of
emissions. The result was that roughly $80 million in excess
them is a critical factor in understanding the risks associated
COMP (Compound’s governance token) was incorrectly
with the tokens supported by them. If a bug is exploited or
distributed.25 Cybersecurity management frameworks
hack is successful, it is highly likely that any funds lost are
would generally classify this as a vulnerability that would
completely unrecoverable due to the immutable nature of
require immediate patching. However, immediate patching
blockchain transactions. There is also no guarantee that
was impossible as Compound’s governance processes were
an exploited code flaw can be successfully remediated in
designed to operate based on a decentralized model. In
a timely manner. It is imperative that project teams have
April 2020, Compound Labs initiated its decentralization
robust cyber risk management processes when developing
roadmap by deploying its Governor Bravo smart contract,
smart contracts and managing the private keys and
enforcing programmatic governance. This included
wallets that control protocol or community funds, as well
removing any single individual with administrative privileges
as proper governance procedures to identify and address
and introducing a time lock feature coded into the smart
potential vulnerabilities. The complexity of these processes,
contract itself enforcing automated, programmatic
and therefore risk, increases in tandem with the level of
governance controls over processes like change
decentralization introduced into governance processes.
management. The time lock feature enforced a two-day
Through ongoing distribution of governance tokens, project
“cooling-off” period for the community to perform any last-
teams incrementally dilute their ability to exercise control
minute diligence on the contract itself and the impact that
over the direction of their protocol in favor of decentralized,
approved changes to the protocol may have.
community-driven governance processes. While this
approach embodies the ethos of cryptocurrencies, it can
also expose the pitfalls.
Proposal created Voting active Voting ends
2 days 3 days Outcome decided 2 days
Figure 5: From Compound
Token due diligence: a structured approach to evaluate digital asset risk 14
It should be noted that the Compound protocol does and visualize it, and it should be therefore treated as an
include a Pause Guardian function that can be called in external source of information that requires additional
the event of an emergency exploit, where the authority to diligence in order to be used as a trusted data source. At a
pause the protocol’s operations is controlled by Compound minimum, the completeness and accuracy of data should
Labs via a multi-sig wallet. However, Compound’s be tested and, if possible, sourced from multiple parties.
Comptroller contract was not managed by this multi-sig However, if the rigors of a financial statement audit are
wallet; thus, the Pause Guardian function could not be applied to the analyses, then the relevance and reliability
used to bypass community governance. Therefore, this of information from a blockchain would be a key audit
exploit remained vulnerable for multiple days after it was consideration and therefore require additional evaluation
identified due to the same processes that were meant to of the source and nature of the data. If blockchain data is
help mitigate these risks. Understanding how governance unavailable and block explorer data is unreliable, this can
processes work and the extent a project team or other lead to loss of funds; significant operational hurdles; and
centralized entity has administrative control should be difficulties when reporting to regulators, auditors or other
a key consideration for token holders as it impacts their third parties and in effectively managing risk.
ability to understand and monitor how protocols or project
A token holder should be able to very clearly understand
teams are actively managing risks attributed to cyber
how ownership is defined within the blockchain network
incidents. Reviewing and understanding a protocol’s history
on which they are operating. For example, the Cosmos
of governance proposals can provide insight into the
blockchain has a native “clawback” functionality that
number of exploits, potential attacks and attack remedies.
allows the issuer of an asset the ability to burn clawback-
Poor or improperly designed risk management processes,
enabled assets using an administrative function that
particularly related to cybersecurity, can manifest in risk
effectively destroys the asset and removes it from the
events that directly impact a protocol’s long-term viability.
owner’s balance. This is a conscious design decision
DAOs also present a significant vector for attack, because it helps enable development of SEC-compliant
particularly when a protocol implements a community- assets; however, such a design decision also presents the
controlled treasury wallet or general fund. Multi-sig risk of a clandestine and arbitrary confiscation of account
wallets are a common practice to help protect funds in funds by malicious entities. Additionally, the token holder
these types of communal wallets, wallets by distributing should understand the rights that are afforded to them
signing authority to multiple individuals. However, project through token ownership and how those can change based
teams or responsible community members are not always on how the token is being used for various DeFi activities,
completely transparent in terms of who has control of the such as staking or providing liquidity.
signing keys and the level of rigor of their key management
Additionally, the degree of transactional visibility is
practices. It is therefore important to understand both how
important for token holders to be able to audit existence,
a multi-sig wallet is implemented, who controls those keys,
movement and ownership of digital assets. The data
and how the keys are stored; a multi-sig wallet is useless
necessary to trace transactional-level detail is publicly
if the keys themselves are controlled by highly centralized
available through a number of network-scanning
actors or stored in an unsecure manner.
technologies, such as Etherscan, although it is not
necessarily structured in a user-friendly way. A token
7. Auditability
holder should consider identifying a diverse set of scanning
7.1 Auditability and ownership
technologies, particularly if holding digital assets from a
The degree to which a digital asset’s existence or a
lesser-known blockchain or a blockchain that implements
transaction related to a digital asset can be verified using
privacy-preserving technology. Although the existence of
on-chain data should be taken into consideration when
privacy-enabling technology on blockchains likely increases
evaluating risk associated with a cryptocurrency or token.
the risk that digital assets are or have been used for illicit
Transactional data is publicly available, but the average
purposes, it can also impede a token holder’s ability to
user relies on third-party block explorers or APIs to retrieve
accurately track balances and movement of funds.
Token due diligence: a structured approach to evaluate digital asset risk 15
Lastly, understanding the scope and nature of the The framework can be useful for an inclusive set of
validation checks performed on transactions by validating participants, such as institutional investors, sell-side banks
nodes is a good way to determine whether a network and dealers, and crypto-native institutions of various types.
has a way to effectively screen potentially malicious
9. How we can help
transactions. At a minimum, look for rules that standardize
transaction syntax, balance verification, provide digital Ernst & Young LLP was a first mover in providing services
signature validation and do not allow for abnormal or to digital asset clients and has developed a cohesive,
unconventional transactions. integrated approach to serving this market. We have
brought together the capabilities of our global blockchain
8. In summary
technology team with our time-tested solutions to build a
The blockchain ecosystem is an incredibly complex mix dedicated digital asset practice for financial services. This
of token holders, technological implementations and extends our distinction as the only professional services
economic models that can be combined in a seemingly firm with a dedicated financial services practice across
endless number of ways. Different types of token holders assurance, tax, strategy and transactions, and consulting
will have different risk appetites based on their use services, and positions us to help build, connect and
case for the asset. Technological blockchain designs protect participants in the digital asset ecosystem.
and implementations are usually driven by operational
Our experience spans the development of the most
requirements and the desire to solve the blockchain
foundational elements of digital asset strategy to the
trilemma problem and largely have fallen short in this
implementation of operating models, technology solutions
regard. This has led to a diverse ecosystem of application-
and risk management frameworks. We support both
specific chains with complex token ecosystems built atop,
traditional finance and digital-native organizations on
creating multilayered risk profiles that are, in most cases,
topics ranging from blockchain engineering, technology
completely unique. Understanding how all the layers
and cybersecurity, to tax, finance, accounting, risk and
interact and the risk trade-offs that exist as a result are
regulatory compliance. On the regulatory front, we
nontrivial tasks, even for the crypto savvy. The pillars of
support clients that are in the early stages of designing
risk and the criteria discussed are not exhaustive nor were
and developing their products and preparing to engage
they developed with one particular entity or blockchain
with regulators, through the application process, go-live
in mind.
preparation and post-launch as firms go through exams
Our paper is designed to provide an agnostic framework and remediation exercises.
based on components that are very likely to be applicable
Our integrated digital assets team helps to build blockchain
to all blockchains and the tokens that exist within them.
and digital asset solutions and actively supports clients in
The intention is to arm potential token holders, regardless
building a scaled and sustainable ecosystem.
of use case, with a guide on where to start and how to
think about token risk across the entire ecosystem.
The framework cannot predict the performance or
popularity of a particular token. The framework does
not weigh the probability of a black swan event or the
magnitude of its potential impact. However, using the
framework may help in flagging potential exogenous
and endogenous risks to protocols and, by affiliation,
their tokens allowing prospective token holders to better
understand the risks involved. Therefore, pairing the
general framework with a technical risk and compliance
assessment may produce the best results.
Token due diligence: a structured approach to evaluate digital asset risk 16
References 14 “Crooks steal $182 million from Beanstalk DeFi
platform,” Cybersecurity World Conference website,
1 “State of Compound Q1 2022,” Messari website,
cybersecurityworldconference.com/2022/04/19/
messari.io/report/state-of-compound-q1-2022,
crooks-steal-182-million-from-beanstalk-defi-platform,
15 April 2022.
19 April 2022.
2 “Quantifying Decentralization,” news.earn.com
15 “EIP-1559: Fee market change for ETH 1.0 chain,”
website, news.earn.com/quantifying-decentralization-
Ethereum Improvement Proposals website, eips.
e39db233c28e, 27 July 2017.
ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1559, 13 April 2019.
3 “Nakamoto Coefficient,” CrossTower website,
16 “Uniswap Grants Program,” Unigrants website, www.
crosstower.com/resources/education/nakamoto-coeffi
unigrants.org, 2021.
cient/?msclkid=16513b38c59611ec807d26d7e083
17 “What is Tokenomics?” Decrypt website, decrypt.co/
bb04, accessed January 2023.
resources/tokenomics, 16 January 2019.
4 “Vitalik Sounds Alarm on Security of Cross-
18 “Bitcoin Halving,” CoinWarz website, www.coinwarz.
chain Bridges.” Yahoo Finance website, www.
com/mining/bitcoin/halving, accessed January 2023.
yahoo.com/video/vitalik-sounds-alarm-security-
cross-120031414.html, 11 January 2022. 19 “Rewards and Penalties on Ethereum 2.0 [Phase
0],” Consensys website, consensys.net/blog/codefi/
5 “Wormhole Bridge Exploit Incident Analysis,”
rewards-and-penalties-on-ethereum-20-phase-0,
Certik website, www.certik.com/resources/
2 March 2020.
blog/1kDYgyBcisoD2EqiBpHE5l-wormhole-bridge-
exploit-incident-analysis, 1 August 2022. 20 “Ultra sound money,” ultra sound money website,
ultrasound.money, accessed January 2023.
6 “Jump Trading Backstops Wormhole’s $320M Exploit
Loss,” CoinDesk website, www.coindesk.com/ 21 “Terra Money: Stability and Adoption,” assets.website-
business/2022/02/03/jump-trading-backstops- files.com/611153e7af981472d8da199c/618b02d1
wormholes-320m-exploit-loss-sources, 3 February 3e938ae1f8ad1e45_Terra_White_paper.pdf,
2022. April 2019.
7 “Issue #60: Juno Whale,” 30,000 Feet website, 22 “SEC Chairman Jay Clayton: Cryptocurrencies Like
30000feet.substack.com/p/issue-60-juno-whale, Bitcoin Are Not Securities,” CNBC, YouTube website,
20 March 2022. www.youtube.com/watch?v=8YtZJRUak8E, 6 June
2018.
8 “What are Smart Contracts?” Blockgeeks website,
blockgeeks.com/guides/smart-contracts, 19 October 23 https://decrypt.co/140247/sec-head-gary-gensler-
2022. insists-crypto-rules-are-already-clear.
9 “DeFi dashboard,” DefiLlama website, defillama.com, 24 https://www.reuters.com/legal/us-judge-says-
accessed January 2023.
sec-lawsuit-vs-ripple-labs-can-proceed-trial-some-
10 “Solidity vs Vyper,” QuickNode website, www. claims-2023-07-13/.
quicknode.com/guides/smart-contract-development/
25 DeFi Money Market Compound Overpays Millions
solidity-vs-vyper, 23 September 2022.
in COMP Rewards in Possible Exploit; Founder Says
11 “What is Solidity Programming Language?” Decrypt $80M at Risk,” CoinDesk website, ADD WEBSITE from
website, decrypt.co/resources/solidity, 24 January footnote 25, updated 11 May 2023.
2019.
12 “Solidity Security: Comprehensive list of known attack
vectors and common anti-patterns,” Sigma Prime
website, blog.sigmaprime.io/solidity-security.html,
30 May 2018.
13 “Compare Crypto Loan Platforms for Borrowing
Against Crypto 2022,” DeFi Rate website, defirate.
com/borrow, 6 October 2022.
Token due diligence: a structured approach to evaluate digital asset risk 17
Authors
Mark Vangeloff Matt McConnell
Blockchain Technology Consulting Digital Asset Business Consulting
Ernst & Young LLP Ernst & Young LLP
mark.vangeloff@ey.com matthew.mcconnell@ey.com
Contributors
Steve Beattie Paul MacIntosh
Financial Services Digital Assets Risk Leader Financial Services Digital Assets Leader
Ernst & Young LLP Ernst & Young LLP
steven.beattie@ey.com paul.macintosh@ey.com
David Byrd Mark Nichols
Blockchain Strategy Leader for Assurance Capital Markets Digital Assets Strategy Lead
Ernst & Young LLP Ernst & Young LLP
david.byrd@ey.com mark.nichols@ey.com
Rebecca Carvatt Kristina Sanger
Banking and Capital Markets Financial Services Digital Assets
Digital Assets Consulting Leader FinCrime Leader
Ernst & Young LLP Ernst & Young LLP
rebecca.carvatt@ey.com kristina.sanger@ey.com
Michael Gonzales
Chen Zur
Financial Services Digital Assets
US Blockchain Practice Leader
Assurance Lead
Ernst & Young LLP
Ernst & Young LLP
chen.zur@ey.com
michael.t.gonzales@ey.com
Arwin Holmes Aaron Stafford
Global Blockchain Chief Technology Officer, Financial Services Digital Asset
Americas Consulting Metaverse Leader Blockchain Consulting
Ernst & Young LLP Ernst & Young LLP
arwin.holmes@ey.com aaron.stafford@ey.com
Brendan Maher
Financial Services Digital Assets Strategy
Ernst & Young LLP
brendan.maher@ey.com
Token due diligence: a structured approach to evaluate digital asset risk 18
EY | Building a better working world
EY exists to build a better working world, helping to
create long-term value for clients, people and society
and build trust in the capital markets.
Enabled by data and technology, diverse EY teams in
over 150 countries provide trust through assurance
and help clients grow, transform and operate.
Working across assurance, consulting, law, strategy,
tax and transactions, EY teams ask better questions
to find new answers for the complex issues facing our
world today.
EY refers to the global organization, and may refer to one or more, of the
member firms of Ernst & Young Global Limited, each of which is a separate
legal entity. Ernst & Young Global Limited, a UK company limited by
guarantee, does not provide services to clients. Information about how EY
collects and uses personal data and a description of the rights individuals
have under data protection legislation are available via ey.com/privacy. EY
member firms do not practice law where prohibited by local laws. For more
information about our organization, please visit ey.com.
Ernst & Young LLP is a client-serving member firm of
Ernst & Young Global Limited operating in the US.
© 2024 Ernst & Young LLP.
All Rights Reserved.
US SCORE no. 22465-241US_2
2401-4417859
ED None
This material has been prepared for general informational purposes only
and is not intended to be relied upon as accounting, tax, legal or other
professional advice. Please refer to your advisors for specific advice.
ey.com